THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 
EXTRAORDINARY 
 PART – III – SECTION 4  
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
NEW DELHI, MAY 21, 2012 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
NOTIFICATION 
Mumbai, the 21st May, 2012 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
(ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUNDS) REGULATIONS, 2012 
 
LAD-NRO/GN/2012-13/04/11262. —  In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
Section 30 read with sub -section (1) of Section 11, clause (ba) and clause (c) of sub -section (2) 
of Section 11 and sub -section (1) and (1B) of Se ction 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) the Securities and Exchange Board of India hereby, makes the 
following regulations, namely, — 
 
CHAPTER – I 
PRELIMINARY 
 
Short title and commencement. 
1. (1) These regulations shall be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012. 
 (2) These regulations shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Official 
Gazette. 
Definitions. 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall 
bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions and variations 
shall be construed accordingly,— 

(a)     “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
1[(aa)  “accreditation agency” means a subsidiary of a recognized stock exchange or a 
subsidiary of a depository or any other entity as may be specified by the Board 
from time to time. 
Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, the Board may recognize an 
accreditation agency subject to such conditions as may be specified; 
(ab)  “accredited investor” means any person who is granted a certificate of 
accreditation by an accreditation agency who,  
(i) in case of an individual, Hindu Undivided Family, family trust or sole 
proprietorship has:   
(A) annual income of at least two crore rupees; or 
(B) net worth of at least seven crore fifty lakh rupees, out of which not less 
than three crores seventy -five lakh rupees is in the form of financial 
assets; or 
(C) annual income of at least one crore rupees and minimum net worth of 
five crore rupees, out of which not less than two crore fifty lakh rupees 
is in the form of financial assets. 
(ii) in case of a body corporate, has net worth of at least fifty crore rupees; 
(iii) in case of a trust other than family trust, has net worth of at least fifty crore 
rupees; 
(iv) in case of a partnership firm set up under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, 
each partner independently meets the eligibility criteria for accreditation: 
Provided that the Central Government and the State Governments, developmental 
agencies set up under the aegis of the Central Government or the State 
Governments, funds set up by the Central Government or the State Governments, 
qualified institutional buyers as defined under the S ecurities and Exchange Board 
of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018, 
Category I foreign portfolio investors, sovereign wealth funds and multilateral 
                                                      
1 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 

agencies and any other entity as may be specified by the Board from time  to time, 
shall deemed to be an accredited investor and may not be required to obtain a 
certificate of accreditation;] 
(b) “Alternative Investment Fund” means any fund established or incorporated in India 
in the form of a trust or a company or a limited li ability partnership or a body 
corporate which,- 
(i) is a privately pooled investment vehicle which collects funds from 
investors, whether Indian or foreign, for investing it in accordance with a 
defined investment policy for the benefit of its investors; and 
(ii) is not covered under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 
Funds) Regulations, 1996, Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999 or any other 
regulations of the Board to regulate fund management activities: 
Provided that the following shall not be considered as Alternative Investment 
Fund for the purpose of these regulations,-  
(i) family trusts set up for the benefit of ‘relatives’ as defined under 
2[Companies Act, 2013];  
(ii) 3[ESOP Trusts set up under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 or as permitted under 
Companies Act, 2013;] 
(iii) employee welfare trusts or gratuity trusts set up for the benefit of 
employees; 
(iv) 4[’holding companies’ as defined under sub -section 46 of section 2 of 
Companies Act, 2013;] 
                                                      
2 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956”. 
3 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01 -06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “(ii) ESOP Trusts set up under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme), 
Guidelines, 1999 or as permitted under Companies Act, 1956;” 

(v) other special purpose vehicles not established by fund managers, including 
securitization trusts, regulated under a specific regulatory framework;  
(vi) funds managed by securitisation company or reconstruction c ompany 
which is registered with the Reserve Bank of India under Section 3 of the 
Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of 
Security Interest Act, 2002; and 
(vii) any such pool of funds which is directly regulated by any other regul ator 
in India; 
(c)    “associate” means a company or a limited liability partnership or a body corporate 
in which a director or trustee or partner or Sponsor or Manager of the Alternative 
Investment Fund or a director or partner of the Manager or Sponsor h olds, either 
individually or collectively, more than fifteen percent of its paid -up equity share 
capital or partnership interest, as the case may be;  
(d)   “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under 
Section 3 of the Act; 
(e)  “certificate” means a certificate of registration grante d by the Board under 
regulation 6; 
5[(f) “Change in control” – 
(i) in case of a body corporate –  
                                                                                                                                                                           
4 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendme nt) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “ holding companies’ within the meaning of 
Section 4 of the Companies Act, 1956;”. 
5 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Control in Intermediari es) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 17-1-2023. Prior to the substitution, clause (f) read as under: 
““change in control” in relation to a company or  a body corporate, means: 
(i) if its shares are listed on any recognized stock exchange, change in control  within the meaning of 
clause (e) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 
(ii) in any other case, change in the controlling interest or change in legal form; 
Explanation.─ For the purpose of sub -clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” means an 
interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of more than fifty percent of voting rights or 
interest;” 

(A) if its shares are listed on any recognised stock exchange, shall be construed 
with reference to  the definition of control in terms of regulations framed under 
clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Act;  
(B) if its shares are not listed on any recognised stock exchange, shall be construed 
with reference to the definition of control as provided in sub-section (27) of Section 
2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013);   
(ii) in a case other than that of a body corporate, shall be construed as any change in its 
legal formation or ownership or change in controlling interest. 
Explanation – For the purpose of sub -clause (ii), the expression “controlling interest” 
means an interest, direct or indirect, to the extent of not less than fifty percent of  
voting rights or interest;] 
6[(fa) “Co-investment” means investment made by a Manager or Sponsor o r investor 
of a  Category I or II Alternative Investment Fund in unlisted s ecurities of investee 
companies where such a Category I or Category II Alternative Investment Fund makes 
investment;] 
7[(fb) “Co-investment scheme” means a scheme of a Catego ry I or Category II 
Alternative Investment Fund, which facilitates co -investment to investors of a 
particular scheme of an  Alternative Investment Fund, in unlisted securities o f an 
investee company where the scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund is making 
investment or has invested;] 
(g)  “company” means a company incorporated under the 8[Companies Act, 2013]; 
                                                      
6 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(fa) “Co-investment” means investment made by a Manager or Sponsor or investor of Category I and II  
Alternative  Investment  Fu nd(s)  in  investee  companies  where  such  Category  I  or  Category  II Alternative 
Investment Fund(s) make investment: 
Provided  that  Co -investment  by  investors  of Alternative  Investment  Fundshall  be  through  a  Co -investment  
Portfolio  Manage r  as  specified  under  the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Portfolio Managers) 
Regulations, 2020.” 
7 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
8 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956”. 

9[(ga) “Corporate Debt Market Development Fund” means an Alternative Investment 
Fund set up and making investments in terms of Chapter III-C of these regulations.] 
(h) “corpus” means the total amount of funds committed by investors to the Alternative 
Investment Fund by way of a written contract or any such document as on a 
particular date;  
10[(ha) “credit default swaps” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Master 
Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Credit Derivatives) Directions, 2022.] 
11[12[(hb)]  “custodian” means a person who has been granted a certificate of registration 
to carry on the business of custodian under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Custodian) Regulations, 1996;] 
13[(i) “debt fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests primarily in debt 
securities of listed or unlisted investee companies or in securitized debt 
instruments as per the stated objectives of the Fund;] 
14[(ia) “dissolution period” means the period following the expiry of the liquidation 
period of the scheme for the purpose of liquidating the unliquidated investments 
of the scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund. 
(ib) “encumbrance” shall have the same meaning as  assigned to it under chapter V of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.] 
                                                      
9 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f  15-06-2023. 
10 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f  09-01-2023. 
11 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India   (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f. 10-05-2019. 
12 Substituted for (“ha”) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f  09-01-2023. 
13 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amen dment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(i) “debt fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests primarily in debt or debt securities of listed or 
unlisted investee companies according to the stated objectives of the Fund;” 
14 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 25-04-2024. 

(j) “equity linked instruments” includes instruments convertible into equity shares or 
share warrants, preferenc e shares, debentures compulsorily or optionally 
convertible into equity;  
(k) “form” means any of the forms set out in the First Schedule; 
15[(ka)  “goods” means the goods notified by the Central Government under clause (bc) 
of section 2 of the Securities Contr acts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and forming the 
underlying of any commodity derivative;] 
(l) “hedge fund” means an Alternative  Investment Fund which employs diverse or 
complex trading strategies and invests and trades in securities having diverse risks 
or complex products including listed and unlisted derivatives; 
(m) “infrastructure fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests 
primarily in unlisted securities or partnership interest or listed debt or securitized 
debt instruments of investee companies or s pecial purpose vehicles engaged in or 
formed for the purpose of  operating, developing or holding infrastructure 
projects; 
Explanation.─ ‘Infrastructure’ shall be as defined by the government of India 
from time to time. 
(n)  “inspecting authority” means any on e or more person appointed by the Board  to 
exercise powers conferred under regulation 30;  
(o) “investee company” means any company, special purpose vehicle or limited 
liability partnership or body corporate  16[or real estate investment trust or 
infrastructure investment trust]  in which an Alternative Investment Fund makes 
an investment; 
                                                      
15 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) Regulations, 
2019, w.e.f. 10-05-2019. 
16 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 
26-09-2014.  

17[(p) “investable funds” means corpus of the scheme of Alternative Investment Fund net 
of expenditure for administration and management of the fund estimated for the 
tenure of the fund. 
Explanation.─ For the purpose of this clause, the expression “tenure” means the 
duration of scheme from the 18[date of first close]  till 19[last date] of the term as 
specified in the fund documents;] 
20[(pa)  “large value fund for accredited investors” means an Alternative Investment Fund 
or scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund in which each investor (other than 
the Manager, Sponsor, employees or directors of the Alternative Investment Fund 
or employees or directors of the Manager) is an accredited investor and invests not 
less than seventy crore rupees;] 
21[(pb)  “liquidation period” means a period of one year following the expiry of tenure or 
extended tenure of the scheme 22[***] of an Alternative Investment Fund; 
(pc) “liquidation scheme” means a  close ended scheme launched by an Alternative 
Investment Fund only for the purpose of liquidating the unliquidated investments 
purchased from its scheme, whose tenure has expired.] 
(q) “manager” means any person or entity who is appointed by the Alternative 
Investment Fund to manage its investments by whatever name called and may 
also be same as the sponsor of the Fund; 
                                                      
17 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Invest ment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(p) “investible funds” means corpus of the Alternative Investment Fund net of estimated expenditure for 
administration and management of the fund;” 
18 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. Prior to the substitution, it read as “day of its launch”. 
19 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. Prior to the substitution, it read as “last day”. 
20 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
21 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 
22 The words “for fully liquidating the scheme ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 25-04-2024.  

23[(qa) “not for profit organization” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in                
clause (e) of regulation 292A of the Secu rities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;] 
(r) “private equity fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests 
primarily in equity or equity linked instruments or partnership interests of 
investee companies according to the stated objective of the fund; 
24[(ra)   “Shelf placement memorandum” means a p lacement memorandum filed by an 
Alternative Investment Fund for launching co-investment schemes;] 
(s) “SME” means Small and Medium Enterprise  and sha ll have the same meaning as 
assigned to it under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act 
2006 as amended from time to time;  
(t) “SME fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests primarily in 
unlisted securities of investee companie s which are SMEs or securities of those 
SMEs which are listed or proposed to be listed on a SME exchange or SME 
segment of an exchange;  
   25[(ta) “social enterprise” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (h) of 
regulation 292A of the Sec urities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018; 
      (tb)     “social impact fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests 
primarily in securities, units or partnership interest of social ve ntures or securities 
of social enterprises and which satisfies the social performance norms laid down 
by the fund; 
 (tc)   “social stock exchange” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (i) 
of regulation 292A of the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018; 
                                                      
23 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 25-07-2022. 
24 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
25 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 25-07-2022. 

 (td)    “social units” means units issued by a social impact fund or schemes of a social 
impact fund to investors who have agreed to receive only social returns or 
benefits and no financial returns against their contribution;] 
(u) “social venture” means a trust, society or company or venture capital undertaking 
or limited liability partnership formed with the purpose of promoting social 
welfare or solving social problems or providing social benefits and includes,- 
(i) public charitable trusts registered with Charity Commissioner; 
(ii) societies registered for charitable purposes or for promotion of science, 
literature, or fine arts; 
(iii) 26[company registered under section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013;]  
(iv) micro finance institutions; 
(v) 27[***] 
(w) “sponsor” means any person or persons who set up the Alternative Investment 
Fund and includes promoter in case of a company and designated partner in case 
of a limited liability partnership;  
28[(wa) “startup” means a private limited company or a limited liability partnership which 
fulfills the criteria for startup as specified by the Department of Promotion of 
Industry and Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of 
India, vide notification n o. G.S.R. 127(E) dated February 19, 2019 or such other 
policy of the Central Government issued in this regard from time to time;] 
(x) “trust” means a trust established under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 or under an 
Act of Parliament or State Legislation; 
                                                      
26 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01 -06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “ company registered under Section 25 of 
the Companies Act, 1956”. 
27 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 25 -07-2022. Prior to its omission, clause (v) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 2 read as 
under:  
“social  venture  fund”  means  an  Alternative  Investment  Fund  which  invests primarily  in  securities  or  units  
of  social  ventures  and  which  satisfies  social performance norms laid down by the fund and whose investors may 
agree to receive restricted or muted returns;”  
28 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. 

29[(y)     “unit” means beneficial interest of the investors in the Alternative  Investment 
Fund or a scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund and may  be fully or partly 
paid up. 
Explanation.─ For the purpose of this clause, partly paid up units shall represent 
the portion of committed capital invested by the investor in Alternative 
Investment Fund or scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund;] 
(z)  “venture capital fund” means an Alternative Investment Fund which invests 
primarily in unlisted securities of start -ups, emerging or early -stage venture 
capital undertakings mainly involved in new products, new services, technology 
or intellectual property right based activities or a new business model  30[and shall 
include 31[a]  32[ migrated venture capital fund as defined under Chapter III-D]]; 
33[34[(za)] “venture capital undertaking” means a domestic company which is not listed on 
a recognised stock exchange at the time of making investments;] 
(2) All other expressions unless defined  herein shall have the same meaning as have been 
assigned to them under the Act or the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, (42 
                                                      
29 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment F unds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
(z) “unit” means beneficial interest of the investors in the Alternative Investment Fund or a scheme of the 
Alternative Investment Fund and shall include shares or partnership interests; 
30 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013 
31 Substituted for “an angel fund as defined under Chapter III -A and” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09 -09-2025. 
32 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 20-07-2024. 
33 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its substitution, clause (aa) read as under : 
“(aa) “venture capital undertaking” means a domestic company:  
(i) which is not listed on a recognised stock exchange in India at the time of making investment; and  
(ii) which is engaged in the business for providing services, production or manufacture of article or things and 
does not include following activities or sectors: 
(1) non-banking financial companies; 
(2) gold financing; 
(3) activities not permitted under industrial policy of Government of India; 
(4) any other activity which may be specified by the Board in consultation with Government of Indi a from time 
to time;” 
34 Substituted for “(aa)” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 

of 1956) or the 35[Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) ], or any statutory modification or 
re-enactment thereto, as the case may be. 
 
CHAPTER II 
REGISTRATION OF ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUNDS 
Registration of Alternative Investment Funds. 
3. (1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, no entity or person shall act as an 
Alternative Investment Fund unless it has obtained a c ertificate of registration from the 
Board: 
Provided that an existing fund falling within the definition of Alternative Investment 
Fund which is not registered with the Board may continue to operate for a period of six 
months from commencement of these regulations or if it has made an application for 
registration under sub -regulation (5) within the said period of six months, till the 
disposal of such application: 
Provided further that the Board may, in special cases, extend the said period up to a 
maximum of twelve months from the date of such commencement:  
Provided further that existing schemes will be allowed to complete their agreed tenure, 
such funds shall not raise any fresh monies other than commitments already made till 
registration is granted under regulation 6: 
36[Provided further that such existing funds, which do not propose to accept any fresh 
commitments after commencement of these regulations shall not be required to obtain 
registration under these regulations subject to submission of information  on their 
activities to the Board in the manner as may be specified] 
Provided further that if such existing funds are not able to comply with co nditions 
specified under these regulations, they may apply for exemption to the Board fro m strict 
                                                      
35 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Inv estment Funds)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”. 
36 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013. 

compliance with these r egulations and the Board upon examination may provide such 
exemptions or issue such instructions as may be deemed appropriate.  
(2) The funds registered as venture capital fund under Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Venture Capital Funds) Regul ations, 1996 shall continue to be regulated by the 
said regulations till the existing fund or scheme managed by the fund is wound up  and 
such funds shall not launch any new scheme after notification of these regulations:  
Provided that the existing fund o r scheme shall not increase the targeted corpus of the 
fund or scheme after notification of these regulations. 
Provided further that venture capital funds may seek  37[registration under these 
regulations as migrated venture capital funds in terms of Chapter  III-D, within twelve 
months from the date of notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024]. 
38[Provided further that the  Board may specify enhanced regulatory reporting and ot her 
measures for the venture capital funds that do not seek registration as a migrated venture 
capital fund in terms of Chapter III-D.] 
(3) Any entity referred to in sub-regulation (1) who fails to make an application for grant of a 
certificate within the peri od specified therein shall cease to carry on any activity as an 
Alternative Investment Fund. 
(4) Alternative Investment Funds shall seek registration in one of the categories mentioned 
hereunder and in case of Category I Alternative Investment Fund, in one of the sub -
categories thereof: 
(a)  “Category I Alternative  Investment Fund” which invests in start -up or early 
stage ventures or social ventures or SMEs or infrastructure or other sectors or 
areas which the government or regulators consider as socially or econo mically 
                                                      
37 Substituted for the words “ re-registration under these regulations subject to approval of two -thirds of their 
investors by value of their investment ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment 
Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 20-07-2024. 
38 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 20-07-2024. 

desirable and shall include venture capital funds, SME Funds, 39[angel 
funds,]40[social impact funds] , infrastructure funds 41[, special situation funds]  and 
such other Alternative  Investment Funds as may be specified; 
Explanation.─ For the purpose of this clause, Alternative Investment Funds 
which are generally perceived to have positive spillover effects on economy and 
for which the Board or Government of India or other regulators in India might 
consider providing incentives or co ncessions shall be included  and such funds 
which are formed as trusts or companies shall be construed as “venture capital 
company” or “venture capital fund” as specified under sub -section (23FB) of 
Section 10 of the Income Tax Act, 1961.  
(b) “Category II Alternative  Investment Fund” which does not fall in Category I and 
III and which does not undertake leverage or borrowing other than [***]42 as 
permitted in these regulations;  
Explanation.─ For the purpose of this clause, Alternative Investment Funds such 
as private equity funds or debt funds for which no specific incentives or 
concessions are given by the government or any other Regulator shall be 
included.  
(c) “Category III Alternative  Inve stment Fund” which employs diverse or complex 
trading strategies and may employ leverage including through investment in listed 
or unlisted derivatives. 
Explanation.─  For the purpose of this clause, Alternative  Investment Funds 
such as hedge funds or fun ds which trade with a view to make short term returns 
or such other funds which are open ended and for which no specific incentives or 
concessions are given by the government or any other Regulator shall be 
included.  
                                                      
39 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
40 Substituted for the words “ social venture funds ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.20 22. 
41 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 24.01.2022. 
42 The words “to meet day-to-day operational requirements and” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 07-08-2024. 

(d) 43[specified Alternative Investment Fun d under Regulation 19 of these 
regulations.] 
(5) An application for grant of certificate shall be made for any of the categories as specified 
in sub-regulation (4) in Form A as specified in the First Schedule to these regulations 
and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in Part A of 
the Second Schedule to these regulations to be paid in the manner specified in Part B 
thereof. 
(6) The Board shall take into account requirements as specified in the se regulations for the 
purpose of considering grant of registration. 
(7) Without prejudice to the powers of the Board to take any action under the Act or 
regulations made there under , the certificate of registration shall be valid till the 
Alternative Investment Fund is wound up. 
(8) The Board may, in the interest of the investors, issue directions with regard to the transfer 
of records, documents or securities or disposal of investments relating to its activities as 
an Alternative Investment Fund. 
(9) The Board may, in order to protect the interests of in vestors, appoint any person to take 
charge of records, documents, securities and for this purpose, also determine the terms 
and conditions of such an appointment. 
Eligibility Criteria. 
4. For the purpose of the grant of certificate to an applicant, the Board shall consider the 
following conditions for eligibility, namely, — 
(a) the memorandum of association in case of a company; or the Trust Deed in case 
of a Trust; or the Partnership deed in case of a limited liability partnership permits 
it to carry on the activity of an Alternative Investment Fund; 
(b) the applicant is prohibited by its memorandum and articles of association or trust 
deed or partnership deed from making an invitation to the public to subscribe to 
its securities; 
                                                      
43 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 

(c) in case the applicant is a Trust, the instrument of trust is in the form of a deed and 
has been duly registered under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908; 
(d) in case the applicant is a limited liability partnership, the partnership is duly 
incorporated and the partnership deed has been duly filed with the Registrar under 
the provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008; 
(e) in case the applicant is a body corporate, it is set up or established under the laws 
of the Central or State Legislature and is permitted to carry on the ac tivities of an 
Alternative Investment Fund; 
(f) the applicant, Sponsor and Manager are fit and proper persons based on the 
criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; 
(g) 44[The key investment team of the Manager of Alternative Investment Fund has -  
(i) 45[at least one key personnel with relevant certification as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time]; and 
(ii) at least one key personnel with professional qualification in finance, 
accountancy, business management, commerce, economics, capital 
market or banking from a university or an institution recognized by 
the Central Government or any State Government or a foreign 
university, or a CFA charter from the CFA institute or any other 
qualification as may be specified by the Board: 
 
                                                      
44 Substituted by Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020 w.e.f 19-10-2020. Prior to its substitution, clause (g) read as follows; 
“(g) the key investment team of the Manager of Alternative Investment Fund has adequate exper ience, with at least 
one key personnel having not less than five years experience in advising or managing pools of capital or in fund or 
asset or wealth or portfolio management or in the business of buying, selling and dealing of securities or other 
financial assets and has relevant professional qualification;” 
45 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 202 3 w.e.f such date as the Board may by notification in the Official Gazett e appoint . Prior to its 
substitution, sub-clause (i) read as follows: 
“(i) adequate experience, with at least one key personnel having not less than five years of experience in advising or 
managing pools of capital or in fund or asset or wealth or portfoli o management or in the business of buying, selling 
and dealing of securities or other financial assets;” 

Provided that the  requirements 46[***] as specified in regulation 
4(g)(i) and 4(g)(ii) may also be fulfilled by the same key personnel.] 
 
47[Provided further that a fresh certification shall be obtained before 
expiry of the validity of the existing certification to ensure continuity 
in compliance with the certification requirement.] 
 
(h) the Manager or Sponsor  has the necessary infrastructure and manpower to 
effectively discharge its activities; 
(i) the applicant has clearly descri bed at the time of registration the investment 
objective, the targeted investors,  proposed corpus, investment style or strategy 
and proposed tenure of the fund or scheme; 
(j) whether the applicant or any entity established by the Sponsor or Manager has 
earlier been refused registration by the Board. 
 
Furnishing of Information. 
5. (1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish any such further information or 
clarification regarding the Sponsor or Manager or nature of the fund or fund 
management activities or a ny such matter connected thereto to consider the application 
for grant of a certificate or after registration thereon. 
(2) If required by the Board, the applicant or Sponsor or Manager shall appear before the 
Board for personal representation. 
 
Procedure for grant of Certificate. 
                                                      
46 The words “of experience and professional qualification ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) Regulations, 202 3 w.e.f such date as the Board may by 
notification in the Official Gazette appoint.  
47 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f such date as the Board may by notification in the Official Gazette appoint. 

6. (1) The Board may grant certificate under any specific category of Alternative Investment 
Fund, if it is satisfied that the applicant fulfills the requirements as specified in the se 
regulations.  
(2) The Board shall, on receipt of the regi stration fee as specified in the Second Schedule, 
grant a certificate of registration in Form B. 
(3) The registration may be granted with such conditions as may be deemed appropriate by 
the Board. 
48[(4) The Board may, on being satisfied that the applicant comp lies with the provisions of 
regulation 4 except those of clause (c) or clause (d) thereof, as the case may be, grant an in -
principle approval to the applicant: 
Provided that the applicant shall comply with clause (c) or clause (d) of regulation 4, as 
the case may be, within six months from the date of grant of in -principle approval and upon 
compliance with the same, the Board may grant a certificate of registration under sub -
regulation (2). 
(5) An Alternative Investment Fund that has been granted in-principle approval may accept 
commitments from investors but shall not accept any monies till it is granted registration 
under sub-regulation (2) of this regulation.] 
Conditions of certificate.  
7. (1) The certificate granted under regulation 6 shall, inter -alia, be  subject to the following 
conditions:-  
(a) the Alternative Investment Fund shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these 
regulations; 
(b) the Alternative Investment Fund shall not carry on any other activity other than 
permitted activities; 
(c) the Alternative I nvestment Fund shall forthwith inform the Board in writing, if 
any information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be 
                                                      
48 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013  

false or misleading in any material particular or if there is any material change in 
the information already submitted.  
(2) An Alternative Investment Fund which has been granted registration under a particular 
category cannot change its category subsequent to registration, except with the approval 
of the Board. 
Procedure where registration is refused. 
8. (1) After considering an application made under regulation 3, if the Board is of the opinion 
that a certificate should not be granted, it may reject the application after giving the 
applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 
(2) The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the 
applicant within thirty days. 
(3) Where an application for a certificate is rejected by the Board, the applicant shall cease 
to carry on any activity as an Alternative Investment Fund: 
Provided that nothing contained in  these regulations shall affect the liability of the 
applicant towards its existing investors under law or agreement. 
 
CHAPTER III 
INVESTMENT CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS 
Investment Strategy. 
9. (1) All Alternative Investment Funds shall state investment strat egy, investment purpose 
and its investment methodology in its placement memorandum to the investors.  
(2) Any material alteration to the fund strategy shall be made with the consent of atleast 
two-thirds of unit holders by value of their investment in the Alte rnative Investment 
Fund.   
 
Investment in Alternative Investment Fund. 

10. Investment in all categories of Alternative Investment Funds shall be subject to the following 
conditions:- 
(a) the Alternative Investment Fund may raise funds from any investor whether Ind ian, 
foreign or non-resident Indians by way of issue of units 49[:] 
50[Provided that a social impact fund or schemes of a social impact fu nd may also issue 
social units;] 
51[(aa) The Alternative Investment Fund shall issue units in dematerialised form subject  to the 
conditions specified by the Board from time to time.] 
(b) each scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund shall have corpus of at least twenty crore 
rupees 52[:] 
53[Provided that each scheme of the social impact fund shall have a corpus of at least 
five crore rupees;] 
(c) the Alternative Investment Fund shall not accept from an investor, an investment of value 
less than one crore rupees: 
 Provided that in case of investors who are employees or directors of the Alternative 
Investment Fund or employees or direct ors of the Manager, the minimum value of 
investment shall be twenty five lakh rupees 54[:] 
55[Provided further that this clause shall not apply to an accredited investor56[:]] 
                                                      
49 Substituted for the symbol “;” by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. 
50 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. 
51 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 
52 Substituted for the symbol “;” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f  25.07.2022. 
53 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. 
54 Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of Indi a (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
55 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
56 Substituted for the s ymbol “;” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f  25.07.2022 

57[Provided further that in case of a social impact fund which invests only in secur ities 
of not for profit organizations registered or listed on a social stock exchange, the 
minimum value of investment by an individual investor shall be two lakh rupees;] 
(d) the Manager or Sponsor shall have a continuing interest in the Alternative Investmen t 
Fund of not less than two and half percent of the corpus or five crore rupees, whichever 
is lower, in the form of investment in the Alternative Investment Fund and such interest 
shall not be through the waiver of management fees: 
Provided that for Category III Alternative Investment Fund, the continuing interest shall 
be not less than five percent of the corpus or ten crore rupees, whichever is lower.  
(e) the Manager or Sponsor shall disclose their investment in the Alternative Investment 
Fund to the investors of the Alternative  Investment Fund; 
(f) no scheme of the Alternative  Investment Fund shall have m ore than one thousand 
investors58[:] 
59[Provided that the provisions of the 60[Companies Act, 2013] shall apply to the 
Alternative Investment Fund, if it is formed as a company.]  
(g) the fund shall not solicit or collect funds except by way of private placement. 
Placement Memorandum. 
11. (1) Alternative Investment Fund shall raise funds through private placement by issue of 
information memorandum or placement memorandum, by whatever name called. 
(2) Such information or placement memorandum as specified in sub -regulation (1) shall 
contain all material information about the Alternative  Investment Fund and the Manager,  
background of key investment team of the Manager, targeted  investors, fees and all other 
expenses proposed to be charged, tenure of the Alternative  Investment Fund or scheme, 
                                                      
57 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. 
58 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013 for the  symbol “;” 
59 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013  
60 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)(Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to the substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956”. 

conditions or limits on redemption, investment strategy, risk management tools and 
parameters employed, key service providers,  61[terms of reference of the committee 
constituted for approving the decisions of the Alternative Investment Fund, ] conflict of 
interest and procedures to identify and address them, disciplinary history, the terms and 
conditions on which the Manager offers investment services, its affiliations with other 
intermediaries, manner of winding up of the Alternative  Investment Fund or the scheme 
and such other information as may be necessary for the investor to take an informed 
decision on whether to invest in the Alternative  Investment Fund. 
Schemes. 
12. (1) The Alternative Investment Fund may launch schemes subject to filing of placement 
memorandum with the Board.  
(2) Such placement memorandum shall be filed with the Board  62[through a merchant 
banker] atleast thirty days prior to  launch of scheme along with the fees as specified in 
the Second Schedule: 
Provided that payment of scheme fees shall not apply in case of launch of first scheme 
by the Alternative Investment Fund. 
63[(3) The Board may communicate its comments, if any, to t he merchant banker prior to 
launch of the scheme and the merchant banker shall ensure that the comments are 
incorporated in the placement memorandum prior to launch of the scheme64[:]] 
                                                      
61 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. 
62 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-11-2021. 
63 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 11-11-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(3) The Board may c ommunicate its comments, if any, to the applicant prior to launch of the scheme and the 
applicant shall incorporate the comments in placement memorandum prior to launch of scheme  *[:] 
**[Provided that the requirements under sub -regulation (2) and (3) shall  not apply to large value fund for 
accredited investors].” 
* Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
** Inserted by the Securities and Exchange  Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
64 Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 24.01.2022  

65[Provided that the requirements under sub-regulation (2) and (3) shall not apply to large 
value fund for accredited investors.] 
66[(4) The first close of the scheme shall be declared by an Alternative Investment Fund in 
the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(5) Notwithstanding the proviso to sub -regulation (2), if the Alternative Investment Fund 
fails to declare the first close of the scheme in the specified manner, it shall be required to 
file a fresh application for launch of the scheme by paying the requisite scheme fee under 
the Second Schedule.] 
Tenure. 
13. (1) Category I Alternative Investment Fund and Category II Alternative Investment Fund 
shall be close ended and the tenure of fund or scheme shall be determined at the time of 
application subject to sub-regulation (2) of this regulation. 
(2) Category I a nd II Alternative Investment Fund or schemes launched by such funds shall 
have a minimum tenure of three years. 
(3) 67[Schemes of] Category III Alternative Investment Fund may be open ended or close 
ended.  
(4) 68[The manner of calculating the tenure of a close ende d scheme of an Alternative 
Investment Fund, including the manner of modification of the tenure, may be specified 
by the Board from time to time.] 
(5) Extension of the tenure of the close ended Alternative Investment Fund may be permitted 
up to two years subjec t to approval of two -thirds of the unit holders by value of their 
investment in the Alternative Investment Fund 69[:] 
                                                      
65 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 24.01.2022 
66 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. 
67 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 
68 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Four th Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. 
69 Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 

70[Provided that a large value fund for accredited investors may be permitted to extend its 
tenure up to five years subject to the approval of two-thirds of the unit holders by value of 
their investment in the large value fund for accredited investors: 
 
Provided further that the extension in tenure of any existing scheme of a large value 
fund for accredited investors shall be subject to such c onditions as may be specified by 
the Board from time to time.] 
(6) 71[In the absence of consent of unit holders under sub-regulation (5) or upon expiry of the 
extended tenure, the Alternative Investment Fund or the scheme of the Alternative 
Investment Fund shal l be wound up in accordance with Regulation 29 of these 
regulations.]  
Listing. 
14. (1) Units of close ended Alternative Investment Fund may be listed on stock exchange 
subject to a minimum tradable lot of one crore rupees. 
(2) Listing of Alternative Investment Fu nd units shall be permitted only after final close of 
the fund or scheme. 
General Investment Conditions.  
15. (1) Investments by all categories of Alternative Investment Funds shall be subject to the 
following conditions:- 
(a) Alternative Investment Fund may inves t in securities of companies incorporated 
outside India subject to such conditions or guidelines that may be stipulated or 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India and the Board from time to time; 
                                                      
70 Substituted for “ Provided that large value fund s for accredited investors may be permitted to extend its tenure 
beyond two years, subject to terms of the contribution agreement, other fund documents and such conditions as may 
be specified by the Board from time to time. ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 07-08-2024. 
 
71 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (6) read as follows: 
“(6) In the absence of consent of unit holders, the Alternative Investment Fund shall fully liquidate within one year 
following expiration of the fund tenure or extended tenure.” 

      (b)  72[***] 
73[(c) Category I and II of Alternative Investment Funds shall invest not more than twenty 
five per cent of the investable funds in an Investee Company directly or through 
investment in the units of other Alternative Investment Funds 74[:] 
75[Provided that large value funds for accredited investors of Category I and II may 
invest up to fifty percent of the investable funds in an investee company directly or 
through investment in the units of other Alternative Investment Funds;] 
 76[(d) Category III Alternative Investment Funds shall invest not more than ten per cent of 
the investable funds in an Investee Company, directly or through investment in units 
                                                      
72 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09 -09-2025. Prior to its omission, claus e (b) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 15 read as 
under:  
“The  terms  of  Co -investment  in  an  investee  company  by  a  Manager  or  Sponsor  or  co -investor,  shall  not  
be  more  favourable  than  the  terms  of  investment  of  the  Alternative Investment Fund: 
Provided that the terms of exit from the Co -investment in an investee company including the timing of  exit  shall  be  
identical  to  the  terms  applicable  to  that  of  exit  of  the  Alternative Investment Fund:  
Provided further that the above proviso shall be applicable only for co -investment made from the date of coming 
into force of this regulation;”  
73 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its substitution clauses (c) and (d) read as under:  
“(c) Category I and II Alternative Investment Funds shall invest not more than twenty five percent of the 
*[investable funds] in one Investee Company; 
(d) Category III Alternative  Investment Fund shall invest not more than ten percent of the *[investable funds] 
in one Investee Company” 
* Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus”.  
74 Substituted for “.” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  Securities and Exchange Board of India  
(Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
75 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board  of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 
76 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 16-03-2022. Prior to its substitution clause (d) read as under – 
“*[(d) Category  III  Alternative  Investment  Funds  shall  invest  not  more  than  ten per  cent  of the  net  asset  
value  in listed equity of an Investee  Company and shall invest not more  than ten  per  cen t  of  the  investable  
funds  in  securities  other  than  listed  equity  of  an  Investee Company, directly or through investment in units of 
other Alternative Investment Funds: 
Provided  that  large  value  funds  for  accredited  investors  of  Catego ry  III  Alternative Investment Funds may 
invest up to twenty per cent of the net asset value in listed equity of an  Investee  Company  and  may  invest  up  to  
twenty  per cent  of  the  investable  funds  in securities other than listed equity of an In vestee Company, directly or 
through investment in units of other Alternative Investment Funds;” 
*Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021 w.e.f 09-11-2021. Prior to its substitution clause (d) read as under – 
“(d) Category III of Alternative Investment Funds shall invest not more than ten per cent of the investable funds in 
an Investee Company directly or through investment in units of other Alternative Investment Funds:  

of other Alternative Investment Funds and the large value funds for accredited 
investors of Cate gory III Alternative Investment Funds may invest up to twenty per 
cent of the investable funds in an Investee Company, directly or through investment 
in units of other Alternative Investment Funds: 
Provided that for investment in listed equity of an Invest ee Company, Category III 
Alternative Investment Funds may calculate the investment limit of ten per cent of 
either the investable funds or the net asset value of the scheme and large value funds 
for accredited investors of Category III Alternative Investme nt Funds may calculate 
the investment limit of twenty per cent of either the investable funds or the net asset 
value of the scheme, subject to the conditions specified by the Board from time to 
time;] 
 77[(da) Alternative Investment Funds which are authoris ed under the fund documents to 
invest in units of Alternative Investment Funds shall not offer their units for 
subscription to other Alternative Investment Funds;] 
78[(e) Alternative Investment Fund shall not invest except with the approval of seventy five 
percent of investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund 
in - 
(a) associates; or 
(b) units of Alternative Investment Funds managed or sponsored by its Manager, 
Sponsor or associates of its Manager or Sponsor;] 
79 [(ea) Except with the approval of seventy five percent of the investors by value of 
their investment in the scheme of Alternative Investment Fund and subject to the 
                                                                                                                                                                           
Provided  that  large  value  funds  for accredited  investors  of  Category  III  may  invest  up  to  twenty  percent  of  
the investable  funds  in  an  investee  company  directly  or  through  investment  in  units  of  other  Alternative  
Investment Funds;” 
77Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021.  
78 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendme nt) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its substitution clauses (e) read as under –  
“(e) Alternative Investment Fund shall not invest in associates except with the approval of seventy five percent of 
investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund;” 
79 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 

conditions specified by the Board, a scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund shall 
not buy or sell investments, from or to - 
(a) associates; or 
(b) schemes  of  Alternative  Investment  Funds  managed  or  sponsored  by  its  
Manager, Sponsor or associates of its Manager or Sponsor; or 
(c) an investor who has committed to invest at least fifty percent of the c orpus of the 
scheme of Alternative Investment Fund: 
Provided that while obtaining approval of the investors, the investor specified under 
sub-clause (c) who has committed to invest at least fifty percent of the corpus of the 
scheme of Alternative Investment Fund and is buying or selling the investment, from 
or to, the Alternative Investment Fund, shall be excluded from the voting process.] 
80[(f) Un -invested portion of the investable funds and divestment proceeds pending 
distribution to investors may be inve sted in liquid mutual funds or bank deposits or 
other liquid assets of higher quality such as Treasury bills, Triparty Repo Dealing 
and Settlement, Commercial Papers, Certificates of Deposits, etc. till the deployment 
of funds as per the investment objecti ve or the distribution of the funds to investors 
as per the terms of the fund documents, as applicable;] 
(g)  Alternative Investment Fund may act as Nominated Investor as specified in clause (b) 
of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 106N of the Securities an d Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; 
81[(h) Investment by Category I and Category II Alternative Investment Funds in the shares 
of entities listed on institutional trading platform after the commencemen t of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
                                                      
80 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investm ent Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(f) Un-invested portion of the *[investable funds] may be invested in liquid mutual funds or bank deposits or other 
liquid assets of higher quality such as Treasury bills, CBLOs, Commercial Papers, Certificates of Deposits, etc. till 
deployment of funds as per the investment objective;” 
* Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus”. 
81 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2015, w.e.f. 14.08.2015 

Requirements) (Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2015 shall be deemed to be 
investment in ‘unlisted securities’ for the purpose of these regulations.] 
82[(i) Alternative Investment Fu nds shall hold their investments in dematerialised form, 
subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time:  
Provided that the requirement under clause (i) of sub -regulation (1) shall not apply 
to: 
(a) investments by Alternative  Investment Funds in such type of instruments which 
are not eligible for dematerialisation, 
(b) investments held by a liquidation scheme of the Alternative Investment Funds 
that are not available in the dematerialised form, and 
(c) such other investments b y Alternative Investment Funds and such other schemes 
of Alternative Investment Funds as may be specified by the Board from time to 
time.] 
(2) Notwithstanding the conditions as specified in sub -regulation (1), the Board may specify 
additional requirements or c riteria for Alternative Investment Funds or for a specific 
category thereof. 
Conditions for Category I Alternative Investment Funds. 
16. (1) The following investment conditions shall apply to all Category I Alternative Investment 
Funds:- 
83[(a) Category I Alter native Investment Fund shall invest in investee companies, 
venture capital undertakings, special purpose vehicles, limited liability partnerships  84[,] 
                                                      
82 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2024, w.e.f. 05-01-2024. 
83 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its substitution, clause (a) read as follows - 
“(a) Category I Alternative Investment Fund shall invest in investee companies or venture capital undertaking or in 
special purpose vehicles or in limited liability partnerships or in units of other Alternative Investment Funds as 
specified in these regulations;” 
84 Substituted for the word “or” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 

in units of other Category I Alternative Investment Funds of the same sub category  85[, 
or in units of Category II Alternative Investment Funds as specified in this regulation]]; 
86[(aa) Category I Alternative Investment Funds may engage in hedging, including 
credit default swaps in terms of the conditions as may be specified by the Board from 
time to time.] 
(b) 87[***] 
88[(c) Category I Alternative Investment Funds shall not borrow funds directly or 
indirectly or engage in any leverage for the purpose of making investments or 
otherwise, except for borrowing funds to meet temporary funding requirements and 
day-to-day operational requirements for not more than thirty days, on not more than 
four occasions in a year and not more than ten percent of the investable funds and 
subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time: 
Provided that Cat egory I Alternative Investment Funds may create encumbrance on 
equity of investee company, which is in the business of development, operation or 
management of projects in any of the infrastructure sub-sectors listed in the Harmonised 
Master List of Infrastructure issued by the Central Government, only for the purpose of 
borrowing by such investee company and subject to such conditions as may be specified 
by the Board from time to time.] 
                                                      
85 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative I nvestment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 
86 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f  09-01-2023. 
87 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Boa rd of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its omission clause (b) read as follows:  
(b) Fund of Category I Alternative Investment Funds may invest in units of Category I Alternative  Invest ment 
Funds of same sub-category: 
Provided that they shall only invest in such units and shall not invest in units of other Fund of Funds:  
Provided further that the investment conditions as specified in sub -regulations (2), (3), (4) or (5) shall not be 
applicable to investments by such funds. 
88 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 07-08-2024. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(c) Category I Alternative Investment Funds shall not borrow funds directly or indirectly or engage in any leverage 
except for meeting temporary funding requirements for not more than thirty days, on not more than four occasions in 
a year and not more than ten percent of the investable funds: 
Provided that Category I Alternative Investment Funds may create encumbrance on equity of investee company, 
which is in the business of development, operation or management of projects in any of the infrastructure sub -
sectors listed in the Harmonise d Master List of Infrastructure issued by the Central Government, only for the 
purpose of borrowing by such investee company and subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board 
from time to time.” 

(2) The following investment conditions shall apply to venture capital fund s in addition to 
conditions laid down in sub-regulation (1):-  
89[(a) at least seventy-five percent of the investable funds shall be invested in unlisted 
equity shares or equity linked instruments of a venture capital undertaking or in 
companies listed or proposed to be listed on a SME exchange or SME segment of an 
exchange: 
Provided that the investment conditions specified in clause (a) shall be achieved by 
the fund by the end of its life cycle.] 
(b) 90[***] 
(c) such funds may enter into an agreement with merchant b anker to subscribe to the 
unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver securities in the process of 
market making under 91[Chapter  IX  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulat ions, 2018 and the 
                                                      
89 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Bo ard of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(a) at least two -thirds of the *[investable funds] shall be invested in unlisted equity shares or equity linked 
instruments of a venture capital undertaking or in companies listed or proposed to be listed on a SME exchange or 
SME segment of an exchange;” 
* Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Am endment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus” 
90 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the omission, it read as- 
“(b) not more than one-third  of the *[investable funds] shall be invested in: 
(i) subscription to initial public offer of a venture capital undertaking whose shares are proposed to be listed;  
(ii) debt or debt instrument of a venture capital undertaking in which the fund has already mad e an investment by 
way of equity or contribution towards partnership interest;  
(iii) preferential allotment, including through qualified institutional placement, of equity shares or equity linked 
instruments of a listed company subject to lock in period of one year; 
(iv) the equity shares or equity linked instruments of a financially weak company or a sick industrial company whose 
shares are listed. 
Explanation.– For the purpose of these regulations, “a financially weak company” means a company, which has at 
the end of the previous financial year accumulated losses, which has resulted in erosion of more than fifty percent 
but less than hundred percent of its net worth as at the beginning of the previous financial year.  
(v) special purpose vehicles which ar e created by the fund for the purpose of facilitating or promoting investment in 
accordance with these regulations: 
Provided that the investment conditions and restrictions stipulated in clause (a) and clause (b) of sub -regulation (2) 
shall be achieved by the fund by the end of its life cycle.” 
* Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Ame ndment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e.f 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus” 
91 Substituted for “Chapter  XB  of  the  Securities  and   Exchange  Board  of  India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009 and the provisions of clause (a) and clause (b) of sub -regulation (2)” by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendm ent) Regulations, 2018, 
w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 

provisions of clause (a) of sub - regulation (2)] shall not apply in case of acquisition 
or sale of securities pursuant to such subscription or market making.  
92[(d)  such funds shall be exempt from sub-regulations (1) and (2) of regulation 3 and sub-
regulation (1) of regulation 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of  Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 in respect of investment in 
companies listed on the SME exchange or SME segment of an exchange pursuant to 
due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:  
(i) the fund shall disclose any trading in securities pursuant to such due -
diligence, within two trading days of such trading, to the stock exchanges 
where the investee company is listed; 
(ii) such investment shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of 
investment.] 
(3) The following conditions shall apply to SME Funds in addition to conditions laid down in 
sub-regulation (1):- 
(a) atleast seventy five percent of the 93[investable funds] shall be i nvested in unlisted 
securities or partnership interest of venture capital undertakings or investee 
companies which are SMEs or in companies listed or proposed to be listed on SME 
exchange or SME segment of an  exchange 94[or in units of Category II Alternati ve 
Investment Funds which invest primarily in such venture capital undertakings or 
investee companies]; 
(b) such funds may enter into an agreement with merchant banker to subscribe to the 
unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver securities in  the process of 
                                                      
92 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(d) such funds shall be exempt from regulation 3 and 3A of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 in respect of investment in companies listed on SME Exchange or SME segment 
of an exchange pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:  
(i) the fund shall disclose any acquisition or dealing in securities pursuant to such due -diligence, within two 
working days of such acquisition or dealing, to the stock exchanges where the investee company is liste d; 
(ii) such investment shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of investment.”  
93 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus” 
94 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 

market making under 95[Chapter  IX  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018]; 
96[(c) such funds  shall  be  exempt  from sub -regulations (1) and (2) of regulation 3  and 
sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4 of the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations, 2015 in  respect  of investment in 
companies listed on the SME exchange or SME segment of an exchange pursuant to 
due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:  
(i) the fund shall disclose any trading in securities pursuant to such due -diligence, 
within two trading days of such trading, to the stock exchanges where the 
investee company is listed; 
(ii) such investment shall be locked in for a period of one  year from the date of  
investment.] 
(4) The following conditions shall apply to social 97[impact] funds in addition to the 
conditions laid down in sub-regulation (1):- 
(a) 98[at least seventy -five percent of the inv estable funds shall be invested in unlisted 
securities or partnership interest of social ventures or in units of social ventures or in 
securities of social enterprises: 
                                                      
95 Substituted for “ Chapter XB of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure  
Requirements) Regulations, 2009” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 
96 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Fund s) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(c) such funds shall be exempt from regulation 3 and 3A of Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 in res pect of investment in companies listed on SME Exchange or SME 
segment of an exchange pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:  
(i) the fund shall disclose any acquisition or dealing in securities pursuant to such due -diligence, within two 
working days of such acquisition or dealing, to the stock exchanges where the investee company is listed;  
(ii) such investment shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of investment.”  
 
97 Substituted for the word “ venture” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. 
98 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. Prior to the substitution, clause (a) of sub -regulation (4) of regulation 16 read as 
under:  
“atleast seventy five percent of the *[investable funds] shall be invested in unlisted securities or partnership interest 
of social ventures.” 
* Substituted for “corpus” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16-9-2013. 

Provided that an existing social impact fund may invest the remaining investable 
funds in securities of not for profit organizations registered or listed on a social stock 
exchange with the prior consent of atleast 75% of the investors by value of their 
investment;] 
(b) such funds may accept grants, provided that such utilization of such grants shall be 
restricted to clause (a) 99[:] 
100[Provided that the amount of grant that may be accepted by the fund from any 
person shall not be less than 101[ten lakh rupees]: 
102[Provided further that the minimum amount of grant shall not apply to accredited 
investors:] 
Provided further  that no profits or gains shall accrue to the provider of such 
grants.] 
103[(ba) Notwithstanding the provisions of clauses (a) and (b), a social impact fund or 
schemes of a social impact fund launched exclusively for a not for profit org anization 
registered or listed on a social stock exchange, shall be permitted to deploy or invest 
hundred percent of the investable funds in the securities of not for profit organizations 
registered or listed on a social stock exchange.] 
(c) such funds may give grants to social ventures 104[or social enterprises], provided that 
appropriate disclosure is made in the placement memorandum. 
(d) 105[***] 
                                                      
99 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendm ent) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the symbol “.” 
100 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 
101 Substituted for the words “ twenty five lakh rupees ” by th e Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022.  
102 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 
103 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. 
104 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Ame ndment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. 
105 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 25.07.2022. Prior to its omission, clause (d) of sub -regulation (4) of regulation 1 6 read as 
under: 
“such funds may accept muted returns for their investors i.e. they may accept returns on their investments which 
may be lower than prevailing returns for similar investments.” 

(5) The following conditions shall apply to Infrastructure Funds in addition to conditions laid 
down in sub-regulation (1):- 
(a) atleast seventy five percent of the 106[investable funds] shall be invested in unlisted 
securities or units or partnership interest of venture capital undertaking or investee 
companies or special purpose vehicles , which are engaged in or formed for the 
purpose of operating, developing or holding infrastructure projects  107[or in units of 
Category II Alternative Investment Funds which invest primarily in such venture 
capital undertakings or investee companies or special purpose vehicles]; 
(b) notwithstanding clause (a) of sub-regulation (5), such funds may also invest in listed 
securitized debt instruments or listed debt securities of investee companies or special 
purpose vehicles, which are engaged in or formed for the purpose of operating, 
developing or holding infrastructure projects. 
 
Conditions for Category II Alternative Investment Funds. 
17. The following investment conditions shall ap ply to Category II Alternative Investment 
Funds:- 
108[(a) Category II Alternative Investment Funds shall invest in investee companies or in the 
units of Category I or other Category II Alternative Investment Funds as may be 
disclosed in the Placement Memorandum; 
Explanation - Category II Alternative Investment Fund shall invest primarily in unlisted 
securities and/or listed debt securiti es (including securitised debt instruments) which are 
rated ‘A’ or below by a credit rating agency registered with the Board, directly or through 
                                                      
106 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the word “corpus” 
107 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 
108 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 23-05-2025. Prior to its substitution, clause (a) read as follows -  
“(a) Category II Alternative Investment Funds shall invest in investee companies or in the units of Category I or 
other Category II Alternative Investment Funds as may be disclosed in the placement memorandum;  
Explanation.– Category II Alternative Investment Fund shall invest primarily in unlisted companies directly or 
through investment in units of other Alternative Investment Funds;” 

investment in units of other Alternative Investment Funds, in the manner as may be 
specified by the Board; ] 
(b) 109[***] 
110[(c) Category I I Alternative Investment Funds shall not borrow funds directly or 
indirectly or engage in any leverage for the purpose of making investments or 
otherwise, except for borrowing funds to meet temporary funding requirements and 
day-to-day operational requirements for not more than thirty days, on not more than 
four occasions in a year and not more than ten percent of the investable funds and 
subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time: 
Provided that C ategory I I Alternative Investment Funds may create 
encumbrance on equity of investee company, which is in the business of 
development, operation or management of projects in any of the infrastructure 
sub-sectors listed in the Harmonised Master List of Infr astructure issued by the 
Central Government, only for the purpose of borrowing by such investee 
company and subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board from 
time to time.] 
(d) Notwithstanding clause  (c), Category II Alternative Investment F unds may engage in 
hedging, subject to guidelines as specified by the Board from time to time; 
111[(da) Category II Alternative Investment Funds may buy or sell credit default swaps in 
terms of the conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
                                                      
109 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its omission, clause (b) read as follows -  
“(b) Fund of Category II Alternative Investment Funds may invest in units of Category I or Category II Alternative 
Investment Funds: 
Provided that they shall only invest in such units and shall not invest in units of other Fund of Funds.”  
110 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 07-08-2024. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(c) Category II Alternative Investment Funds may not borrow funds directly or indi rectly and shall not engage in 
leverage except for meeting temporary funding requirements for not more than thirty days, not more than four 
occasions in a year and not more than ten percent of the investable funds:  
 Provided that Category II Alternative In vestment Funds may create encumbrance on equity of investee company, 
which is in the business of development, operation or management of projects in any of the infrastructure sub -
sectors listed in the Harmonised Master List of Infrastructure issued by the Central Government, only for the 
purpose of borrowing by such investee company and subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board 
from time to time.” 
111 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f  09-01-2023. 

(e) Category II Alternative  Investment Funds may enter into an agreement with merchant 
banker to subscribe to the unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver 
securities in the process of market making under 112[Chapter  IX  of  the  Securi ties  and  
Exchange  Board  of  India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018].  
113[(f) Category II Alternative Investment Funds shall be  exempt  from  sub-regulations (1) and 
(2) of regulation 3 and sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4 of the Securities  and  Exchange  
Board  of  India (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations, 2015  in  respect  of 
investment in companies listed on the SME exchange or SME segment of an exchange 
pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the following conditions:  
(i) the fund shall disclose any trading in securities pursuant to such due -diligence, 
within two trading days of such trading, to the stock exchanges where the investee 
company is listed; 
(ii) such investment shall be locked in for  a period of one  year from the date of  
investment.] 
114[Conditions for co-investment by Category I and II Alternative Investment Funds. 
17A. (1) Co-investment by investors of Category I or Cat egory II Alternative Investment  Fund 
shall be through a co -investment scheme launched under these regulations or through a Co - 
investment Portfolio Manager as specified under the Securities and Exchange Board of India  
(Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020. 
(2) A shelf placement memorandum shall be filed with the  Board, in the manner as may be  
specified by the Board from time to time, through a mercha nt banker along with the fee as  
                                                      
112 Substituted for “Chapter XB of the Securities and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2009”  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Fourth Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. 
113 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 13-08-2021. Prior to the substitution, it read as- 
“(c) Category II Alternative Investment Funds shall be exempt from regulation 3 and 3A of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 in respect of investment in companies listed on 
SME Exchange or SME segment of an exchange pursuant to due diligence of such companies subject to the 
following conditions:  
(i) the fund shall disclose any acquisition or dealing in securities pursuant to such due -diligence, within two 
working days of such acquisition or dealing, to the stock exchanges where the investee company is listed; 
(ii) such investment shall be locked in for a period of one year from the date of investment.”  
114 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 

specified in Second Schedule to these regulations, prior t o the co -investment opportunity being 
offered to the investors of Category I or Cate gory II Alternative Investment Fund,  through co-
investment scheme. 
(3) A separate co -investment scheme shall be laun ched for each co -investment, in  accordance 
with the shelf placement memorandum filed with the Board: 
Provided that an Angel fund shall not launch a co-investment scheme. 
(4) Only accredited investors of the Category I or Category  II Alternative Investment Fund shall 
be eligible to invest in a co-investment scheme. 
(5) Each co-investment scheme shall invest in only one investee company. 
(6) A co-investment scheme shall not invest in units of Alternative Investment Funds. 
(7) Co-investment through a co-investment scheme shall be carried out in the manner and subject 
to the conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(8) The terms of co-investment in an investee company by a M anager or Sponsor or Co -investor 
or a co -investment scheme, shall not be mo re favourable than the terms of  investment of the 
Alternative Investment Fund: 
Provided that the timing of exit from the co-investment in an investee company shall be identical 
to the exit of the scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund from the investment  in the investee 
company. 
(9) The co -investment scheme shall be wound up on exit from the co -investment in terms  of 
these regulations. 
(10) The requirements under clauses (b) and (d) of regulation 10, sub-regulation (2) of regulation 
11, sub-regulations (2), (3), (4) and (5) of regula tion 12, regulation 13, clauses  (a), (c), (da), (g) 
and (h) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 15, regulation 16 and regulation 17 shall not apply to a 
co-investment scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund.] 
Conditions for Category III Alternative Investment Funds. 
18. The following investment conditions shall apply to Category III Alternative Investment 
Funds:- 

115[(a) Category III Alternative Investment Funds may invest in securities of listed or unlisted 
investee companies, derivatives, units of other Alternative Investment Funds or complex or 
structured products;]   
116[(aa) Category III Alternative Investm ent Funds may deal in goods received in delivery 
against physical settlement of commodity derivatives;] 
117[(ab) Category III Alternative Investment Funds may buy or sell credit default swaps in 
terms of the conditions as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 (b) 118[***] 
(c) Category III Alternative Investment Funds may engage in leverage or borrow subject to 
consent from the investors in the fund and subject to a maximum limit, as may be 
specified by the Board: 
Provided that such funds shall disclose  information regarding the overall level of 
leverage employed, the level of leverage arising from borrowing of cash, the level of 
leverage arising from position held in derivatives or in any complex product and the main 
source of leverage in their fund to the investors and to the Board periodically, as may be 
specified by the Board. 
(d) Category III Alternative Investment Funds shall be regulated through issuance of 
directions regarding areas such as operational standards, conduct of business rules, 
prudential requirements, restrictions on redemption and conflict of interest as may be 
specified by the Board.  
                                                      
115 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its substitution, clause (a) read as follows -  
“(a) Category III Alternative Investment Funds may invest in securities of listed or unlisted investee companies or 
derivatives or complex or structured products;” 
116 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 10-05-2019. 
117 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023, w.e.f  09-01-2023. 
118 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fu nds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. Prior to its omission, clause (b) read as follows -  
“(b)  *[Fund of Category III ] Alternative Investment Funds may invest in units of Category I or Category II 
Alternative Investment Funds: 
Provided that they invest solely in such units and shall not invest in units of other Fund of Funds”  
*Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 for the words and symbol “Fund of Category II”. 

Other Alternative Investment Fund. 
19. The Board may lay down framework for Alternative Investment Funds other than the Funds 
falling in the categories specified in these regulations. 
 
119[CHAPTER III -A 
ANGEL FUNDS 
Definitions. 
19A. For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined 
herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions and 
variations shall be construed accordingly,- 
(1) “angel fund” means a sub -category of 120[***] Category I- Alternative Investment Fund that 
raises funds from 121[accredited investors] and invests in accordance with the prov isions of this 
Chapter. 
122[(2) "angel investor" means an accredited investor, or  key management personnel of an angel 
fund or its manager, who invests in an angel fund.]  
                                                      
119 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013 
120 The words “Venture Capital Fund under” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of Ind ia (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 09-09-2025.  
121 Substituted for the words “angel  investors” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
122 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as follows -  
“(2) "angel investor" means a ny person who proposes to invest in an angel fund and satisfies one of the following 
conditions, namely, 
(a) an individual investor who has net tangible assets of at least two crore rupees excluding value of his principal 
residence, and who: 
(i) has early stage investment experience, or 
(ii) has experience as a serial entrepreneur, or 
(iii) is a senior management professional with at least ten years of experience;  
       Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, 'early stage investment experience' shall mean prior experience in 
investing in start -up or emerging or early -stage ventures and 'serial entrepreneur' shall mean a person who has 
promoted or co-promoted more than one start-up venture. 
(b) a body corporate with a net worth of at least ten crore rupees; or 
(c) an Alternative Investment Fund registered under these regulations or a Venture Capital Fund registered under the 
SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996.” 
 

 123[(3) "related party" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause (zb) of sub -
regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securitie s and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.]  
Applicability. 
19B. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to angel funds and 124[their managers, 
sponsors, angel investors and investments of angel funds:] 
125[Provided that the provisions of the Securities and Excha nge Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 shall apply to angel funds registered 
prior to the notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment 
Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, in the manner as  may be specified by the 
Board.] 
                                                      
123 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (3) read as follows – 
(3) "company with family connection" means: 
a. if the angel investor is an individual, 
i. any company which is promoted by such an individual or his relative; or 
ii. any company where the individual or his relative is a director; or 
iii. any company where the person or his relative has control, or shares or voting rights which entitle them to 
fifteen percent or more of the shares or voting rights in the company. 
Explanation I: For the purpose of this clause, "relative" means a person as defined under sub-section 77 of section 
2 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
Explanation II: For the purpose of this clause, "control" shall have th e same meaning as assigned to it under sub -
regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. 
b. if the angel investor is a body corporate, 
i. any company which is a subsidiary or a holding company of the investor; 
or 
ii. any company which is part of the same group or under the same management of the investor; or  
Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, "part of the same group" and "under the same management" shall have 
the same meaning as assigned to it under regulation 23 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009. 
iii. any company where the body corporate or its directors/partners have contr ol, or shares or voting rights which 
entitle them to fifteen percent or more of the shares or voting rights in the company.  
Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, "control" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under sub -
regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.” 
124 Substituted for the words and symbols “ schemes launched by such angel funds. ” by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
125 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
 

(2) All other provisions of these regulations, except clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) and (f) of  regulation 
10, regulation 12, regulation 14, clauses (a), (c) 126[, (da)]  and (e) of sub -regulation (1) of  
regulation 15, 127[clause (a) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 16 ] and sub -regulation (2) of  
regulation 16, 128[regulation 17, regulation 18,] 129[sub-regulation (21) of regulation 20]  and the 
guidelines and circulars issued under these regulations, unless the context  otherwise requires or 
repugnant to the provisions of this Chapter, shall apply to angel funds, their  sponsors and 
managers and angel investors. 
130[Explanation: For the purpose of this sub -regulation, the pro visions which are applicable to a 
scheme of an alternative investment fund, shall be applicabl e to the angel fund at the fund level, 
unless specifically stated otherwise.] 
Registration of angel funds. 
19C. (1) An applicant may apply for registration as an angel fund in accordance with the  
provisions of Chapter II of these Regulations. 
(2) 131[***] 
Investment in angel funds. 
19D. 132[(1) Angel funds shall raise funds only from accredited investors by way of issue of 
units, in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time: 
                                                      
126 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of I ndia (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
127 Substituted for the words and symbols “ clause (b) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 16 ” by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment F unds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09 -09-
2025. 
128 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
129 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 18-11-2024. 
130 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
131 Omitted by th e Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (2) of regulation 19C read as under:  
“An Alternative Investment Fund already registered under these regulations, which has not  made any investments, 
may apply for conversion of its catego ry into an angel fund under the  provisions of this Chapter and the provisions 
of Chapter II shall apply as they apply to a fresh registration.” 
132 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as follows – 
“(1) Angel funds shall only raise funds by way of issue of units to angel investors.” 

Provided that the key management personnel of an angel fund or its manager may invest in the 
angel fund.]  
133[(2) No minimum value of investment shall be applicable for investment in an angel fund by 
an angel investor.]  
134[***] 
 135[(3)] Angel fund shall raise funds through private placement by i ssue of information  
memorandum or placement memorandum, by whatever name called. 
136[Provided that the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 shall apply to the Angel Fund , 
if it is formed as a company.] 
137[(4) Such placement memorandum shall be filed with th e Board in the specified format 
through a merchant banker while filing the application for registration as an angel fund. 
(5) The Board may communicate its comments, if any,  to the merchant banker and the 
merchant banker shall ensure that the comments are i ncorporated in the placement memorandum 
prior to its circulation to angel investors by the angel fund for soliciting funds. 
(6) An angel fund shall on -board at least five accredited inves tors before declaring its first  
close in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(7) If the angel fund fails to declare the first close of the fund in the specified manner, it  
shall be required to refile the placement memorandum wit h the Board for circulation an d 
soliciting funds from angel investors, by paying the requisite fee under the Second Schedule.] 
Schemes. 
                                                      
133 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (2) read as follows – 
“(2) An angel fund shall have a corpus of at least five crore rupees.” 
134 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (3) read as follows – 
“(3) Angel funds shall accept, up to a maximum period of five yea rs, an investment of not less than twenty five lakh 
rupees from an angel investor.” 
135 Sub-regulation (4) renumbered as (3) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment 
Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
136 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternativ e Investment Funds)(Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018.  
137 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
 

138[19E. An angel fund shall not launch any schemes for soliciting funds from angel investors or 
making any investments.] 
Investment by Angel Funds. 
19F. 139[(1) Angel funds shall invest only in startups, which are not promoted or sponsored by or 
related to a corporate group whose group turnover exceeds three hundred crore rupees: 
Provided that angel funds may make additional investments in their existing investee companies, 
which are no longer start -ups, subject to the conditions as may be specified by the Board from 
time to time. 
Explanation I: For the purpose of this clause, "corporate group" shall include a group of body 
corporates with the same promoter(s)/promoter group, a parent company and its  subsidiaries, a 
group of body corporates in which the same person/ gr oup of persons  exercise control, and a 
group of body corporates consisting of associates/ subsidiaries/ holding companies. 
Explanation II: For the purpose of this clause, "group turn over" shall mean combined total 
revenue of the corporate group.] 
  
 
                                                      
138 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, regulation 19E read as follows – 
“19E. (1) The angel fund may launch schemes subject to filing of a term sheet with the B oard, containing material 
information regarding the scheme, in the format and time period as may be specified by the Board.  
(2) No scheme of the angel fund shall have more than two hundred angel investors.  
Provided that the provisions of the Companies Act,  2013 shall apply to the Angel Fund, if it is formed as a 
company.” 
139 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (1) of regulation 19F read as follows – 
“(1) Angel funds shall invest in startups which: 
(c) are not promoted or sponsored by or related to an industrial group whose group turnover exceeds three hundred 
crore rupees; and 
Explanation I: For the purpose of this clause, "industrial group" shall include a group of body corporates with the 
same promoter(s)/promoter group, a parent company and its subsidiaries, a group of body corporates in which the 
same person/ group of per sons exercise control, and a group of body corporates comprised of associates/  
subsidiaries/ holding companies. 
Explanation II: For the purpose of this clause, "group turnover" shall mean combined total revenue of the industrial 
group. 
(d) are not companies with family connection with any of the angel investors who are investing in the company. ” 
 

140[(2) Investment made by an angel fund in any investee company shall not be less than ten lakh 
rupees and shall not exceed twenty five crores rupees.]  
 141[(3) Investment by an angel fund in an investee company sha ll be subject to lock -in period as 
may be specified by the Board.] 
 (4) Angel funds shall not invest in associates. 
142[(5) Each investment of an angel fund in an investee compa ny shall have contribution from at 
least two accredited investors.] 
143[(6) Angel funds shall not accept contribution for investment in an in vestee company, from 
those angel investors who are a related party to such investee company.] 
144[(7)]145[ An angel fund may also invest in the securities of companies incorpo rated outside 
India subject to such conditions or guidelines that may be stipulated or issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India and the Board from time to time.] 
Obligations of Sponsors and Managers of Angel Fund. 
19G. 146[***] 
                                                      
140 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (2) of regulation 19F read as follows – 
“Investment by an angel fund in any venture capital undertaking shall not be less than twenty five lakh rupees and 
shall not exceed ten crores rupees.” 
141 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (3) of regulation 19F read as follows – 
“(3) Investment by an angel fund in the venture capital undertaking shall be locked -in for a period of one year.” 
142 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (5) of regulation 19F read as follows – 
“(5) Angel funds shall not invest more than twenty -five per cent of the total investments under all its schemes in one 
venture capital undertaking: 
Provided that the compliance to this sub-regulation shall be ensured by the Angel Fund at the end of its tenure.” 
143 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
144 Sub-regulation (6) renumbered as ( 7) by the Securities and Exchange B oard of India  (Alternative Investment 
Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
145 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 04-01-2017. 
146 Omitted by the  Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its omission, sub-regulation (1) of regulation 19G read as follows – 
“(1) The sponsor shall ensure that the angel inves tors satisfy the conditions specified in sub -regulation (2) of 
regulation 19A.” 

147[(1)] The manager or sponsor shall have a continuing interest in 148[each investment of]  the 
angel fund of not less than  149[half percent of the amount invested or fifty thousand rupees, 
whichever is higher,] and such interest shall not be through the waiver of management fees. 
150[(2)] 151[The manager shall accept contribution from an ang el investor for investing in an  
investee company only after obtaining approval from the angel investor for such investment.] 
152[(3) The manager shall disclose and offer each investme nt opportunity to all the angel 
investors of the angel fund. 
(4) The manager shall disclose a defined me thodology in the placement memora ndum of  the 
angel fund, for the purpose of allocating the inves tment among angel investors who  provide 
approval for such investment, in the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(5) The manager shall accept contributions for investment in an investee company from the angel 
investors who provide approval for the investment, in accordance with the  methodology 
disclosed in the placement memorandum of the angel fund. 
(6) The investors of an angel fund shall have rights in an investment of the angel fund and in the 
distribution of proceeds of the investment, pro -rata to their contribution to such investment, 
except in the cases as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(7) In case an angel fund offers an opportunity for investment in an existing investee company or 
related party of an existing investee company,  the same shall be disclosed to the angel investors 
at the time of seeking their approval for making such investment.] 
                                                      
147 Sub-regulation (2) renumbered as (1) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment 
Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
148 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
149 Substituted for the words and symbols “two and half percent of the corpus or fifty thousand rupees,whichever is 
lesser,” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
150 Sub-regulation (3) renumbered as (2) by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment 
Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 
151 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09 -09-2025. Pr ior to its substitution, the text of sub-regulation ( 3) re-numbered as sub -
regulation (2) of regulation 19G read as follows – 
“The manager of the angel fund shall obtain an undertaking from every angel investor proposing to make investment 
in a venture capital undertaking, confirming his approval for such an investment, prior to making such an 
investment.” 
152 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. 

Prohibition of Listing. 
19H. Units of angel funds shall not be listed on any recognised stock exchange.] 
 
153[CHAPTER III -B 
SPECIAL SITUATION FUNDS 
 
Definitions.  
19I. For the purposes of this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined 
herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below and their cognate expressions and 
variations shall be construed accordingly,-  
 
(1) “resolution applicant” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Insolvency and 
Bankruptcy Code, 2016; 
 
(2) “special situation asset” includes,-  
 
(a) stressed loan available for acquisition in terms of Clause 58 of Master Direction – 
Reserve Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021 as amended from time 
to time or as part of a resolution plan approved under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 
2016 or in terms of any other policy of the Reserve Bank of India or Government of India 
issued in this regard from time to time; 
 
(b) security receipts issued by an Asset Reconstruction Company registered with the Reserve 
Bank of India; 
 
(c) securities of investee companies,  
 
                                                      
153 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of Ind ia (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 24.01.2022 

(i) whose stressed loans are available for acquisition in terms of Clause 58 of the 
Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021 
as amended from time to time or as part of a resoluti on plan approved under the 
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 or in terms of any other policy of the Reserve 
Bank of India or Government of India issued in this regard from time to time; 
 
(ii) against whose borrowings, security receipts have been issued by an  Asset 
Reconstruction Company registered with the Reserve Bank of India;  
 
(iii) whose borrowings are subject to corporate insolvency resolution process under 
Chapter II of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016;  
   
(iv) who have disclosed all the defaults relatin g to the payment of interest/ repayment 
of principal amount on loans from banks / financial institutions/ Systemically Important 
Non-Deposit taking Non -Banking Financial Companies/ Deposit taking Non -Banking 
Financial Companies and /or listed or unlisted d ebt securities in terms of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018 and such payment default is continuing for a period of at least ninety 
calendar days after the occurrence of such default: 
 
Provided that in case of sub -clauses (iii) and (iv), the credit rating of the financial 
instruments or credit instruments or borrowings of the company has been downgraded to 
“D” or equivalent;  
 
(d) Any other asset as may be specified by the Board from time to time;  
 
(3) “special situation fund” means a Category 1 Alternative Investment Fund that invests in 
special situation assets in accordance with its investment objectives and may act as a resolution 
applicant under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. 
 
Applicability.  

19J. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to special situation funds and schemes 
launched by such special situation funds.  
 
(3) All other provisions of these regulations, except clauses (b) and (c) of regulation 10, 
clauses (a), (c) and (e) of sub -regulation (1) of regulation 15, clause (a) of sub -regulation (1) of 
regulation 16 and the guidelines and circulars issued under these regulations, unless the context 
otherwise requires or is repugnant to the provisions of this Chapter, sha ll apply to the special 
situation funds, the schemes of special situation funds and their sponsors and managers. 
  
Registration of special situation funds.  
19K. An applicant may apply for registration as a special situation fund in accordance with the 
provisions of Chapter II of these Regulations.  
 
 
Investment in special situation funds.  
19L. (1) Each scheme of a special situation fund shall have a corpus as may be specified by the 
Board.  
 
(2) The special situation fund shall accept from an investor, an investment of such value as 
may be specified by the Board.  
 
(3) The special situation fund shall not accept investments from any other Alternative 
Investment Fund other than a special situation fund. 
 
Investment by special situation funds. 
19M. (1) Special situa tion funds shall invest only in special situation assets and may act as  a 
resolution applicant under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016: 
 
Provided that the special situation fund shall not invest in,  

i. its associates; or 
ii. the units of any other Alterna tive Investment Fund other than the units of a special 
situation fund; or 
iii. units of special situation funds managed or sponsored by its manager, sponsor or 
associates of its manager or sponsor. 
 
(2) Any investment by a special situation fund in the stressed loa n acquired under clause 58 
of the Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Transfer of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021 
as amended from time to time shall be subject to lock -in period as may be specified by the 
Board.] 
 
 
 
154[CHAPTER III - C 
CORPORATE DEBT MARKET DEVELOPMENT FUND 
Applicability. 
19N. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply only to the Corporate Debt Market 
Development Fund. 
 
(2) All other provisions of these regulations, except the following provisions and the guidelines 
and circulars issued under these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires or is repugnant 
to the provisions of this Chapter, shall apply to the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund, 
its sponsor, manager, trustee and investors: 
i. sub regulation (2) of regulation 9; 
ii. clauses (a), (c), (d), and (f) of regulation 10; 
iii. sub regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 12;  
iv. sub regulations (1), (2), (3), (5) and (6) of regulation 13; 
v. regulations 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, Chapter III-A and III-B, 23;   
vi. sub regulation (1) of regulation 15;  
                                                      
154 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 

vii. sub regulation (15) of regulation 20; 
viii. clause (a), (b) and (c) of sub regulation (1) of regulation 29; 
ix. sub regulations (2),(3), (4) and (8) of regulation 29. 
 
Registration of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund. 
19O. (1) The Corporate Debt Mar ket Development Fund shall be constituted in the form of a 
Trust and the instrument of Trust shall be in the form of a deed duly registered under the 
provisions of the Indian Registration Act, 1908. 
(2) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall appl y for registration as an Alternative 
Investment Fund in accordance with the provisions of Chapter II of these regulations. 
(3) The placement memorandum of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall be filed 
with the Board.  
(4) The Board may communic ate its comments, if any, to the Manager prior to the launch of the 
fund and the Manager shall incorporate the comments in the placement memorandum prior to the 
launch of the fund. 
(5) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall be a close ended fund,  with a tenure of 
fifteen years from the date of its first closing: 
Provided that the tenure may be extended with the prior approval of the Board. 
(6) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall be wound up with the prior approval of 
the Board. 
 
Investment in the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund. 
19P. (1) The units of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall be offered to the Asset 
Management Companies as defined under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 
Funds) Regulations, 1996 and the specified debt-oriented schemes of mutual funds. 
(2) The investment by the Asset Management Companies and the specified debt -oriented 
schemes of the mutual funds shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996. 

(3) The Manager or Sponsor shall have a continuing interest in the Corporate Debt Market 
Development Fund of not less than five crore rupees in the form of investment in the fund but 
such continuing interest shall not be through the waiver of management fees. 
 
Investment conditions for the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund. 
19Q. (1) During periods of market dislocation, the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund 
shall purchase corporate debt securities from th e specified debt -oriented schemes of mutual 
funds which meet the following eligibility criteria:  
(a) corporate debt securities shall be listed and have an investment grade rating; 
(b) the residual maturity of such securities shall not exceed five years on the dat e of 
purchase; 
(c) securities where there is no material possibility of default or adverse credit news or 
views. 
Explanation: For the purpose of sub regulation (1) of this regulation, the Board shall decide the 
trigger of market dislocation and its reversal ba sed on the parameters as may be specified by the 
Board. 
(2) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall purchase corporate debt securities in 
proportion to the contribution made in it at a mutual fund level and in accordance with detailed 
guidelines as may be approved by the Board. 
(3) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall hold eligible securities as mentioned in 
sub regulation (1) of this regulation, till maturity or sell the same in the secondary market upon 
reversal of market dislocation, in the manner as specified by the Board from time to time.   
(4) Other than market dislocation period, the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall 
invest in liquid and low -risk debt instruments and undertake any other activity related to 
corporate debt market, as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
(5) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall buy corporate debt securities at fair 
price adjusted for liquidity risk, interest rate risk and credit risk but not at distress prices.  

(6) The sharing of loss by the sellers of corporate debt securities to the Corporate Debt Market 
Development Fund during periods of market dislocation may be higher than their pro rata 
holding in the Alternative Investment Fund vis-à-vis other unit holders. 
(7) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall not invest in the securities of companies 
incorporated outside India. 
(8) Investment by the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund in any one investee company 
shall not exceed five percent of its fund capital at the time of investment: 
Provided that the combined investment in the corporate debt securities of an issuer group as 
specified under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 
shall not exceed seven and half percent of its fund capital at the time of investment. 
Explanation:  For the purpose of this sub -regulation, ‘fund capital’ shall be the aggregate of the 
corpus of the fund and maximum permissible borrowing as per sub -regulation (9) of this 
regulation. 
(9) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund may borrow funds up to ten times its corpus, 
subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board in consultation with the Government 
of India.  
(10) The valuation procedure and methodology for valuing assets of the Corporate Debt Market 
Development Fund shall be governed by the norms applicable to Mutual Fund schemes under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996. 
(11) In-specie distribution of assets of the Corporate Debt Marke t Development Fund may be 
made to the unit holders, only at the time of winding up subject to the consent of seventy -five 
percent of the unit holders by value of their investment in such fund.   
(12) Any material alteration to the investment strategy of th e Corporate Debt Market 
Development Fund shall be with the prior approval of the Board. 
 
Disclosures.  
19R. (1) The portfolio of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall be disclosed to the 
unitholders on a fortnightly basis. 

(2) The Net Asset Valu e of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall be disclosed to 
the unitholders on a daily basis. 
 
Governance Mechanism for the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund. 
19S. (1) The Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall appoint a trustee company. 
(2) The Board of directors of trustee company and the Manager of the Corporate Debt Market 
Development Fund shall be appointed with the prior approval of the Board. 
(3) The roles and responsibilities of the trustee company shall be similar to the roles and 
responsibilities assigned to trustees under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual 
Funds) Regulations, 1996.  
(4) The trustee company of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall not engage in 
any activity other than acting as a trus tee of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund, 
except with the prior written consent of the Board: 
Provided that any other activity of the trustee company as permitted by the Board shall not be in 
conflict with its role as the trustee of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund. 
(5) Two -thirds of the members of the board of directors of the trustee company shall be 
independent directors and shall not be associated with the Sponsor or the Manager in any manner 
whatsoever. 
(6) No person shall initially or any time thereafter be appointed as a director of the trustee 
company of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund without the prior approval of the 
Board. 
(7) An audit committee of the trustee company shall be constituted to review compliance with 
the provisions of placement memorandum as required under these regulations along with other 
responsibilities as may be specified by the Board from time to time.  
(8) The manager of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall appoint a Governance 
Committee. 

(9) The Governance Committee shall comprise corporate bond market experts including 
academicians, fund managers or Chief Investment Officers, risk management professionals and 
independent market experts. 
(10) The Governance Committee, jointly with the b oard of the Manager and trustee company, 
shall approve the policies of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund.  
(11) The Governance Committee shall supervise the activities of the Corporate Debt Market 
Development Fund, especially relating to management of conflict of interest, if any.    
(12) The Governance Committee shall have oversight on management of asset liability 
mismatches during times of market dislocation.   
 
Prohibition of Listing.  
19T. The units of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fun d shall not be listed on any 
recognised stock exchange. 
Others. 
19U. (1) The provisions of Chapter III -C of these regulations shall cease to exist upon the 
winding up of the Corporate Debt Market Development Fund.  
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in  sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, the Manager of 
Corporate Debt Market Development Fund shall continue to be responsible for any liabilities, 
that may arise out of the mandate in relation to its investment management activities.”] 
 
155[CHAPTER III-D 
Definitions. 
19V. For the purpose of this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined 
herein shall bear the meanings assigned to them below and their cognate expressions and 
variations shall be construed accordingly,- 
 
(1) “migrated venture capital fund” means a fund that was previously registered as a venture 
capital fund under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) 
                                                      
155 Inserted by the Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 20-07-2024. 

Regulations, 1996 and subsequently registered under these regulations as a sub -category of 
Venture Capital Fund under Category I - Alternative Investment Fund in accordance with 
the provisions of this Chapter. 
(2) “investable funds” means corpus of the scheme of the migrated venture capital fund net of 
expenditure for administration and management of the fund. 
 
Applicability. 
19W. (1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply only to migrated venture capital funds and 
schemes launched by such migrated venture capital funds. 
 
(2) All other provisions of these regulations, except the following provisions  and the guidelines 
and circulars issued under these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires or is repugnant 
to the provisions of this Chapter, shall apply to the migrated venture capital fund, its trustee, 
trustee company, directors of the trustee company, directors of the migrated venture capital fund, 
as the case may be, sponsor, if any, Manager, if any, and investors: 
(i)  clause (p), (w), of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2;  
(ii)  sub-regulation (5) of regulation 3;  
(iii)  regulation 4; 
(iv)  sub-regulation (2), (4) and (5) of regulation 6;  
(v)  sub-regulation (2) of regulation 7;  
(vi)  regulations 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16;  
(vii) sub-regulation (11), (11A), (15) (17), (18) and (19) of regulation 20;  
(viii)  sub-regulations (2), (3), (4) and (5) of regulation 23; and  
(ix)  sub-regulation (2) of regulation 27.  
 
Procedure for grant of Certificate. 
19X. (1) An application for seeking registration as a migrated venture capital fund shall be made 
to the Board in the manner specified by Board. 
 
(2) The certificate of registration as a Category I Alternative Investment Fund – Venture Capital 
Fund (Migrated Venture Capital Fund)  shall be granted by the Board , if it is satisfied that the 
applicant fulfills all the requirements as specified in this Chapter under these regulations. 

 
Eligibility Criteria. 
19Y. For the purpose of the grant of certificate under this Chapter, the Board shall consider the 
following eligibility conditions, namely, — 
(a) the applicant has a certificate of registration as a  Venture Capital Fund under 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996; 
(b) the applicant is a fit and proper person; 
(c) the applicant has furnished the required information as specified by the Board from 
time to time; 
(d) the applicant has no pending investor complaint with regard to non -receipt of funds 
or securities for any of its schemes  whose assets are not liquidated in terms of sub -
regulation (2) of regulation 24 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture 
Capital Funds) Regulations 1996, on the date of application under this Chapter; 
(e) no scheme launched by the applicant has investment from an investor which is less 
than five lakh rupees: 
Provided that nothing contained in clause (e) shall apply to investors who are 
employees or the principal officer or directors of the venture capital fund or directors 
of the trustee company or trustees where the venture capital fund has been 
established as a trust or the employees of the manager or asset management company 
of the migrated venture capital fund; 
(f) each scheme launched by the applicant has a firm commitment from the investors for 
contribution of an amount not below rupees five crores before the start of operations 
by the applicant. 
 
Prohibition on inviting subscription from the public. 
19Z. Migrated venture capital fund shall not issue a document or an advertisement inviting offers 
from the public for the subscription or purchase of any of its units.   
 
Private placement. 
19AA. A migrated venture capital fund may receive mo nies for investment in the  migrated 
venture capital fund only through private placement of its units.   
 

Placement memorandum or subscription agreement. 
19AB. (1) The migrated venture capital fund shall— 
(a) issue a placement memorandum which shall contain det ails of the terms and 
conditions subject to which monies are proposed to be raised from investors; or 
(b) enter into a contribution or subscription agreement with the investors which shall 
specify the terms and conditions subject to which monies are proposed to be raised. 
 
(2) The migrated venture capital fund shall file with the Board for information, the copy of the 
placement memorandum or the copy of the contribution or subscription agreement entered into 
with the investors along with a report of money actually collected from the investor.  
 
Contents of Placement Memorandum.  
19AC. The placement memorandum or the subscription agreement with investors shall contain 
the following, namely –  
(a) details of the trustees or trustee company and the directors or chief e xecutives of the 
migrated venture capital fund;  
(b) the corpus of the fund , the minimum amount to be raised for the fund to be 
operational, the minimum amount to be raised for each scheme and the provision for 
refund of monies to the investor in the event of non-receipt of minimum amount;  
(c) details of entitlements on the units of venture capital fund for which subscription is 
being sought; 
(d) tax implications that are likely to apply to investors; 
(e) manner of subscription to the units of the migrated venture capital fund;  
(f) the period of maturity, if any, of the fund;  
(g) the manner, if any, in which the fund shall be wound up;  
(h) the manner in which the benefits accruing to investors in the units of the trust are to 
be distributed;  
(i) details of the fund manager or asset ma nagement company, if any, and the fees to be 
paid to such manager;  
(j) the details about performance of the fund, if any, managed by the Fund Manager;  
(k) investment strategy of the fund; and  
(l) any other information specified by the Board. 

 
Investment by migrated venture capital fund. 
19AD. (1) Investments by migrated venture capital fund shall be subject to the following 
conditions:— 
(a) the migrated venture capital fund shall not invest more than 25% corpus of the fund 
in a single venture capital undertaking; 
(b) the migrated venture capital fund may invest in  the securities of companies 
incorporated outside India subject to such conditions or guidelines that may be 
stipulated or issued by the Reserve Bank of India and the Board from time to time; 
(c) The migrated venture capital fund shall not invest in the associated companies; and 
(d) the migrated venture capital fund shall invest as enumerated below: 
(i) at least 66.67% of the investable funds shall be invested in unlisted equity shares 
or equity linked instruments of venture capital undertaking;  
(ii) not more than 33.33% of the investable funds may be invested by way of: 
(a) subscription to  the initial public offer of a venture capital undertaking 
whose shares are proposed to be listed; 
(b) investment in the debt or debt instrument of a venture capital undertaking 
in which the venture capital fund has already made an investment by way 
of equity; 
(c) preferential allotment of equity shares of a listed company subject to a 
lock in period of one year; 
(d) investment in the equit y shares or equity linked instruments of a 
financially weak company or a sick industrial company whose shares are 
listed. 
Explanation. — For the purpose of these regulations, a “financially weak 
company” means a company, which has at the end of the previou s 
financial year, accumulated losses, which has resulted in the erosion of 
more than 50% but less than 100% of its net worth at the beginning of the 
previous financial year; 

(e) investment in the Special Purpose Vehicles that are created by a venture 
capital fund for the purpose of facilitating or promoting investment in 
accordance with these regulations. 
Explanation. — The investment conditions and restrictions stipulated  in 
clause (d) of sub -regulation (1) shall be achieved by the venture capital 
fund by the end of its life cycle. 
 
(2) The migrated venture capital fund may enter into an agreement with the merchant banker to 
subscribe to the unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver securities in the process 
of market making under Chapter I X of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 and the provisions of sub-regulation (1) 
shall not apply in case of acquisition or sale of securities pursuant to such subscription or market 
making. 
 
(3) Notwithstanding the conditions as specified in sub -regulations (1) and (2) , the Board may 
specify additional requirements or criteria for investments by the migrated venture capital funds. 
 
Schemes. 
19AE. A migrated venture capital fund shall not launch any new scheme. 
 
Tenure. 
19AF. (1) The tenure of a migrated venture capital fund shall be calculated in the manner as may 
be specified by the Board. 
 
(2) Extension of the tenure of a migrated venture capital fund may be permitted up to two years 
subject to the approval of two -thirds of the unit holders by value of their investment in the 
migrated venture capital fund. 
 
(3) In the absence of consent of the unit holders under sub -regulation (2) or upon expiry of the 
extended tenure, the migrated ven ture capital fund or the scheme of the migrated venture capital 
fund shall be wound up in accordance with Regulation 29 of these regulations: 
 

Provided that sub-regulation (9A) of regulation 29 shall not be applicable to a  migrated venture 
capital fund or the scheme of the migrated venture capital fund. 
 
(4) If the assets of a scheme of a venture capital fund registered under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Regulations) 1996 , are not liquidated after the expiry 
of its tenure in terms of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 24 of Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Venture Capital Regulations), 1996  prior to the date of application for registration under 
this Chapter , and the venture capital fund has been granted registration as a migrated venture 
capital fund under these regulations, then such schemes of the migrated venture capital fund may 
be granted additional liquidation period, subject to conditions and in the manner as may be 
specified by the Board: 
 
Provided that the registration as migrated venture capital fund granted under regulation 19X of 
these regulations and the additional liquidation period granted under sub -regulation (4) of this 
regulation shall be without prejudice to the issuance of any direction or measures in ac cordance 
with the provision of the Act and regulations framed thereunder. 
 
Listing. 
19AG. No migrated venture capital fund shall be entitled to get its units listed on any recognised 
stock exchange till the expiry of three years from the date of the issuan ce of units by the 
migrated venture capital fund. 
 
Maintenance of Records. 
19AH. The migrated venture capital fund shall maintain its records under sub -regulation (1) of 
regulation 27 of these regulations for a period of eight years after the winding up of the fund.] 
 
 CHAPTER IV 
GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES AND TRANSPERANCY 
General Obligations.   

156[20 (1) Alternative Investment Fund, key management personnel of the Alternative Investment 
Fund, trustee, trustee company, directors of the trustee company, designated partners or directors 
of the Alternative Investment Fund, as the case may be, managers and key management 
personnel of managers shall abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in the Fourth Schedule. 
Explanation.– For the purpose of this sub-regulation, ‘key management personnel’ shall have the 
meaning as specified by the Board from time to time. 
                                                      
156 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021.Prior to its substitution regulation 20 read as follows-  
“20(1) All Alternative Investment Funds shall review policies and procedures, and their implementation, on a 
regular basis, or as a result of business developments, to ensure their continued appropria teness. 
(2) The Sponsor or Manager of Alternative Investment Fund shall appoint a custodian registered with the 
Board for safekeeping of securities if the corpus of the Alternative Investment Fund is more than five hundred crore 
rupees: 
Provided that the S ponsor or Manager of a Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall appoint such custodian 
irrespective of the size of corpus of the Alternative Investment Fund. 
 *[Provided further that the custodian appointed by Category III Alternative Investment Fund  shall keep custody of 
securities and goods received in delivery against physical settlement of commodity derivatives.]  
(3) All Alternative Investment Funds shall inform the Board in case of any change in the Sponsor, Manager or 
designated partners or any other material change from the information provided by the Alternative Investment Fund 
at the time of application for registration.  
(4) In case of change in control of the Alternative Investment Fund, Sponsor or Manager, prior approval from 
the Board shall be taken by the Alternative Investment Fund. 
(5) The books of accounts of the Alternative Investment Fund shall be audited annually by a qualified auditor.  
 **[(6) The Manager shall be responsible for investment decisions of the Alternative Investment Fu nd:  
Provided that the Manager may constitute an Investment Committee (by whatever name it may be called), to 
approve investment decisions of the Alternative Investment Fund, subject to the following:  
(i) The members of Investment Committee shall be equal ly responsible as the Manager for investment 
decisions of the Alternative Investment Fund. 
(ii) The Manager and members of the Investment Committee shall jointly and severally ensure that the 
investments of the Alternative Investment Fund are in compliance  with the provisions of these regulations, the terms 
of the placement memorandum, agreement made with the investor, any other fund documents and any other 
applicable law. 
(iii) External members whose names are not disclosed in the placement memorandum or a greement made with 
the investor or any other fund documents at the time of on -boarding investors, shall be appointed to the Investment 
Committee only with the consent of at least seventy five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the 
Alternative Investment Fund or scheme. 
(iv) Any other conditions as specified by the Board from time to time ***[:]] 
***[Provided further that clauses (i) and (ii) shall not apply to an Alternative Investment Fund in which each 
investor other than the Manager , Sponsor, employees or directors of the Alternative Investment Fund or employees 
or directors of the Manager, has committed to invest not less than seventy crore rupees (or an equivalent amount in 
currency other than Indian rupee) and has furnished a waiv er to the Alternative Investment Fund in respect of 
compliance with the said clauses, in the manner specified by the Board.]” 
* Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2019, w.e.f. 10-05-2019. 
** Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 19-10-2020. 
*** Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 08-01-2021. 

(2) The Manager and either the trustee or trustee company or the Board of Directors or the 
designated partners of the Alternative Investment Fu nd, as the case may be, shall ensure 
compliance by the Alternative Investment Fund with the Code of Conduct as specified in the 
Fourth Schedule. 
(3) All Alternative Investment Funds shall have detailed policies and procedures, as approved 
jointly by the Ma nager and the trustee or trustee company or Board of Directors or designated 
partners of the Alternative Investment Fund, as the case may be, to ensure that all the decisions 
of the Alternative Investment Fund are in compliance with the provisions of these  regulations, 
terms of the placement memorandum, agreements made with investors, other fund documents 
and applicable laws. 
(4) All Alternative Investment Funds shall review the policies and procedures laid down in terms 
of sub regulation (3) of this regula tion, other internal policies, if any, and their implementation, 
on a regular basis or as a result of business developments, to ensure their continued 
appropriateness. 
(5) The Manager shall be responsible for every decision of the Alternative Investment Fu nd, 
including ensuring that the decisions are in compliance with the provisions of these regulations, 
terms of the placement memorandum, agreements made with investors, other fund documents 
and applicable laws. 
(6) The Manager shall be responsible for ensu ring that every decision of the Alternative 
Investment Fund is in compliance with the policies and procedures laid down for the Alternative 
Investment Fund in terms of sub regulation (3) of this regulation and other internal policies of the 
Alternative Investment Fund, as applicable. 
(7) The Manager may constitute an Investment Committee (by whatever name called), to 
approve the decisions of the Alternative Investment Fund and such constitution shall be subject 
to such conditions as specified by the Board from time to time. 
(8) The members of the Investment Committee shall be responsible for ensuring that the 
decisions of the Investment Committee are in compliance with the policies and procedures laid 
down in terms of sub regulation (3) of this regulation: 
Provided  that  sub -regulation (8) of this regulation  shall  not  apply  to  an  Alternative  
Investment Fund in which each investor other than the Manager, Sponsor, employees or directors 
of the Alternative Investment Fund or employees or directors of the  Manager, has committed to 

invest not less than seventy crore rupees (or an equivalent amount in currency other than Indian 
rupees) and has furnished a waiver to the Alternative Investment Fund in respect of compliance 
with the said sub-regulation, in the manner as may be specified by the Board. 
(9) The members of the Investment Committee shall abide by the Code of Conduct applicable to 
them as specified in Fourth Schedule. 
(10) The external members of the Investment Committee whose names are not disclosed in the 
placement memorandum or in the agreement made with the investor or any other fund document 
at the time of on -boarding investors shall be appointed to the Investment Committee only with 
the consent of at least seventy five percent of the investors by the value of their investment in the 
Alternative Investment Fund or scheme. 
157[(11) The Sponsor or Manager of the Alternative Investment  Fund shall appoint a Custodian 
registered with the Board for safekeeping of the securities of the Alternative Investmen t Fund, in 
the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time: 
Provided that the Custodian appointed by the Sponsor or Manager of a Category III  Alternative 
Investment Fund shall keep the custody of the securities and goods received in  delivery against 
the physical settlement of commodity derivative:  
Provided further that the Custodian appointed by the Sponsor or Manager of an Alternative  
Investment Fund shall report or disclose such information regarding investments of the  
Alternative Investmen t Fund in such manner as may be specified by the Board from time to  
time.] 
158[(11A) A Custodian which is an associate of the Sponsor or Manager of an Alternative 
Investment Fund may act as a custodian for that Alternative Investment Fund only when all the  
following conditions are met: 
                                                      
157 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 05-01-2024. Prior to the substitution, it read as  
“The Sponsor or Manager of the Alternative In vestment Fund shall appoint a custodian registered with the Board 
for safekeeping of the securities if the corpus of the Alternative Investment Fund is more than five hundred crore 
rupees: 
Provided that the Sponsor or Manager of a Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall appoint such a 
custodian, irrespective of the size of the corpus of the Alternative Investment Fund:  
Provided further that the custodian appointed by Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall keep the custody of 
the securities and goods received in delivery against the physical settlement of commodity derivatives.  
*Provided further that the Sponsor or Manager of the Category I and Category II Alternative Investment Fund 
transacting in credit default swaps shall appoint a custodia n registered with the Board and comply with such terms 
and conditions as may be specified by the Board.”. 
*This proviso was inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 09-01-2023. 

(a) the Sponsor or Manager has a net worth of at least twenty thousand crore rupees at all points 
of time; 
(b) fifty per cent or more of the directors of the Custodian do not represent the interest  of the 
Sponsor or Manager or their associates; 
(c) the Custodian and the Sponsor or Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund are  not 
subsidiaries of each other; 
(d) the custodian and the Sponsor or Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund do not  have 
common directors; and 
(e) the Custodian and the Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund sign an  undertaking that 
they shall act independently of each other in their dealings of the  schemes of the Alternative 
Investment Fund.] 
(12) All Alternative Investment Funds shall inform the Bo ard in case of any 159[***] material 
change from the information provided by the Alternative Investment Fund at the time of 
application for registration.  
(13) In case of 160[change of Sponsor or Manager, or]  change in control of the Alternative 
Investment Fun d, Sponsor or Manager, prior approval from the Board shall be taken by the 
Alternative Investment Fund  161[, subject to levy of fees and any other conditions as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time]. 
(14) The books of accounts of the Alternative I nvestment Fund shall be audited annually by a 
qualified auditor.] 
162[(15) The Manager shall not provide advisory services to any in vestor other than the investors 
of a co-investment scheme or clients of a Co -investment Portfolio Manager  as specified in the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 202 0, for investment 
                                                                                                                                                                           
158 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, w.e.f. 05-01-2024.  
 
159 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. 
160 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. 
161 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment  Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. 
162 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Sec ond Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025, w.e.f. 09-09-2025. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (15) of regulation 20 read as follows – 
“(15) The  manager  shall  not  provide  advisory  services  to  any  investor  ot her  than  the  clients  of  Co 
investment  Portfolio  Manager  as  specified  in  the Securities  and  Exchan ge  Board  of  India (Por tfolio 
Managers) Regulations, 2020, for investment in securities of investee companies where the Alternative Investment 
Fund managed by it makes investment.” 

in securities of investee companies where the Alternative Investment Fund managed by it makes 
investment.] 
163[(16) The Manager and either the trustee or the trustee company or the Board of Directors or 
designated partners of the Alternative Investment Fund, as the case may be, shall ensure that the 
assets and liabilities of each scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund are segregated and ring -
fenced from other schemes of the Alternative Investment Fund; and bank accounts and securities 
accounts of each scheme are segregated and ring-fenced.] 
164[(17) T he Manager shall appoint a Compliance Officer who shall be responsible for 
monitoring compliance with the provisions of the Act, rules, regulations, notifications, circulars, 
guidelines, instructions or any other directives issued by the Board. 
(18) The Compliance Officer shall satisfy the eligibility criteria as may be specified by the Board 
from time to time. 
(19) The Compliance Officer shall immediately and independently report to the Board any non -
compliance observed by him, as soon as possible but not later than seven working days from the 
date of observing such non-compliance.] 
165[(20) Every Alternative Investment Fund, Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund and 
Key Management Personnel of the Manager and the Alternative Investm ent Fund shall exerci se 
specific due diligence, with respect to their investors and investments, to prevent facilitation of  
circumvention of such laws, as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
Explanation: “laws” shall include Acts, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines or  circulars 
framed thereunder that are administered by a financial sector regulator, including those 
administered by the Board.] 
166[(21) The investors of a scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund shall have rights, pro -rata 
to their commitment to the scheme , in each investment of the scheme and in the distribution of 
proceeds of such investment, except as may be specified by the Board from time to time: 
                                                      
163 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Fourth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 15-11-2022. 
164 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternat ive Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f  15-06-2023. 
165 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f  25-04-2024. 
166 Inserted by the Securities and E xchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 18-11-2024. 

Provided that the rights of the investors of a schemes of Alternative Investment Fund issued prior 
to the notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2024, which are not pro-rata to their commitment to the scheme 
and not exempted by the Board, shall be dealt with in the manner specified by the Board.  
(22) The rights of investors of a scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund, other than that 
specified in sub-regulation (21) of this regulation, shall be pari-passu in all aspects:  
Provided that differential rights may be offered to sele ct investors of a scheme of an Alternative 
Investment Fund, in the manner as may be specified by the Board, without affecting the interest 
of other investors of the scheme:  
Provided further that the requirement under sub -regulation (22) of this regulation  shall not apply 
to Large Value Fund for Accredited Investors: 
Provided further that any differential right already issued by an Alternative Investment Fund 
prior to the notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment 
Funds) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2024, not falling within the first proviso of sub -
regulation (22) of this regulation, shall be dealt with in the manner as specified by the Board.] 
167[(23) The Alternative Investment Fund shall ensure compliance with the Investor Charter  
specified by the Board from time to time.] 
 
Conflict of Interest. 
21. (1) The Sponsor and Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund shall act in a fiduciary 
capacity towards its investors and shall disclose to the investors, all conflicts of interests 
as and when they arise or seem likely to arise.  
(2) Manager shall establish and implement written policies and procedures to identify, 
monitor and appropriately mitigate conflicts of interest throughout the scope of business.  
(3) Managers and Sponsors of Alternative Investment Fund shall abide by high level 
principles on avoidance of conflicts of interest with associated persons, as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time. 
Transparency. 
                                                      
167 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Charter) (Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f. 
10-02-2025. 

22.    All Alternative Investment Funds shall ensure transparen cy and disclosure of information 
to investors on the following:  
(a) financial, risk management, operational, portfolio, and transactional information 
regarding fund investments shall be disclosed periodically to the investors;  
(b) any fees ascribed to th e Manager or Sponsor; and any fees charged to the Alternative 
Investment Fund or any investee company by an associate of the Manager or Sponsor 
shall be disclosed periodically to the investors; 
(c)any inquiries/ legal actions by legal or regulatory bodies in any jurisdiction, as and when 
occurred; 
(d) any material liability arising during the Alternative Investment Fund’s tenure shall be 
disclosed, as and when occurred; 
(e) any breach of a provision of the placement memorandum or agreement made with the 
investor or any other fund documents, if any, as and when occurred; 
(f) change in control of the Sponsor or Manager or Investee Company.   
(g) Alternative Investment Fund shall provide at least on an annual basis, within 180 days 
from the year end, reports to investors i ncluding the following information, as may be 
applicable to the Alternative Investment Fund:- 
A. financial information of investee companies. 
B. material risks and how they are managed which may include: 
(i) concentration risk at fund level; 
(ii) foreign exchange risk at fund level; 
(iii)leverage risk at fund and investee company levels; 
(iv) realization risk (i.e. change in exit environment) at fund and investee company 
levels; 
(v) strategy risk (i.e. change in or divergence from business strategy) at investee 
company level; 
(vi) reputation risk at investee company level; 

(vii) extra-financial risks, including environmental, social and corporate governance 
risks, at fund and investee company level. 
(h) Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall provide quarterly reports to investors in 
respect of clause (g) within 60 days of end of the quarter; 
(i) any significant change in the key investment team shall be intimated to all investors; 
(j) alternative Investment Funds shall provide, when required by the Board, information for 
systemic risk purposes (includi ng the identification, analysis and mitigation of systemic 
risks). 
Valuation. 
23. (1) The Alternative Investment Fund shall 168[carry out valuation of its investments in the 
manner specified by the Board from time to time and ] provide to its investors, a 
description of its valuation procedure and of the methodology for valuing assets. 
(2) Category I and Category II Alternative Investment Funds shall undertake valuation of 
their investments, atleast once in every six months, by an independent valuer appointed 
by the Alternative Investment Fund: 
Provided that such period may be enhanced to one year on approval of atleast seventy -
five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative Investment 
Fund. 
(3) Category III Alternative  Investment Funds shall  ensure that calculation of the net asset 
value (NAV) is independent from the fund management function of the Alternative 
Investment Fund and such NAV shall be disclosed to the investors at intervals not longer 
than a quarter for close ended Funds and at i ntervals not longer than a month for  open 
ended funds: 
169[Provided that for the purpose of calculation of NAV, Category III Alternative 
Investment Funds shall undertake valuation of their investment in unlisted securities and 
listed debt securities by an independent valuer. 
                                                      
168 Inserted by the Secur ities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f  01-11-2023. 

(4) The Manager shall ensure that the Alternative Investment Fund appoints an 
independent valuer who satisfies the criteria specified by the Board from time to time. 
(5) The Manager and the key management personnel of the Manager shall ensure th at the 
independent valuer computes and carries out valuation of the investments of the scheme 
of the Alternative Investment Fund in the manner specified by the Board from time to 
time. 
(6) The Manager shall be responsible for true and fair valuation of the inv estments of the 
scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund: 
Provided that in case the established policies and procedures of valuation do not result in 
fair and appropriate valuation, the Manager shall deviate from the established policies 
and procedures in order to value the assets or securities at a fair value and document the 
rationale for such deviation: 
Provided further that such deviation and its rationale shall be reported to the trustee or the 
trustee company or the Board of Directors or designated p artners of the Alternative 
Investment Fund and investors of the Alternative Investment Fund.] 
 
Obligation of Manager. 
24. The Manager shall be obliged to: 
(a) address all investor complaints; 
(b) provide to the Board any information sought by Board; 
(c) maintain all records as may be specified by the Board; 
(d) take all steps to address conflict of interest as specified in these regulations; 
(e) ensure transparency and disclosure as specified in the regulations.  
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
169 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f  01-11-2023. 

170[ Grievance Redressal Mechanism. 
24A. (1) The Manager shall redres s investor grievances promptly but not later than twenty -one 
calendar days from the date of receipt of the grievance and in such manner as may be specified 
by the Board. 
(2) The Board may also recognize a body corporate for handling and monitoring the proc ess of 
grievance redressal within such time and in such manner as may be specified.] 
 
Dispute Resolution. 
25. 171[All claims, differences or disputes between investors and the Alternative Investment 
Fund or the Manager arising out of or in relation to the activi ties of the Alternative 
Investment Fund or the Manager in the securities market shall be submitted to a dispute 
resolution mechanism that includes mediation and/or conciliation and/or arbitration, in 
accordance with the procedure specified by the Board: 
Provided that if the Alternative Investment Fund has been established as a trust, then no loss 
or damage or expenses incurred by the Manager or officers of the Manager, including those 
in relation to resolution of claims or disputes of investors, shall be me t out of the trust 
property.]  
Power to call for information. 
26. (1) The Board may at any time call for any information from an Alternative 
Investment Fund or its Manager or Sponsor or trustee or investor with respect to any 
matter relating to its activity as  an Alternative Investment Fund or for the assessment of 
systemic risk or prevention of fraud. 
(2) Where any information is called for under sub -regulation (1) it shall be furnished within 
the time specified by the Board. 
                                                      
170 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Facilitation of Grievance  Redressal Mechanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f. 18-08-2023. 
171 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Alternative Dispute Resolution M echanism) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 04-07-2023. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as follows: 
“An Alternative Investment Fund, by itself or through the Manager or Sponsor, shall lay down procedure for 
resolution of disputes between t he investors, Alternative Investment Fund, Manager or Sponsor through arbitration 
or any such mechanism as mutually decided between the investors and the Alternative Investment Fund. ” 

Maintenance of Records. 
27. (1) The Manager or Sponsor shall be required to maintain following records describing: 
(a) the assets under the scheme/fund; 
(b) valuation policies and practices; 
(c) investment strategies; 
(d) particulars of investors and their contribution; 
(e) rationale for investments made. 
(2) The records under sub-regulation (1) shall be maintained for a period of five years after 
the winding up of the fund. 
Submission of reports to the Board. 
28. The Board may at any time call upon the Alternative Investment Fund to file such reports, as 
the Board may desire , with respect to the activities carried on by the Alternative Investment 
Fund. 
 
Winding up. 
29. (1) An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a trust shall be wound up: 
(a) when the tenure of the Alternative  Investment Fund or all schemes launched by the 
Alternative  Investment Fund, as mentioned in the placement memorandum is over; 
or 
(b) if it is the opinion of the trustees or the trustee company, as the case may be, that the 
Alternative  Investment Fund be wound up in the interests of investors in the units; 
or 
(c) if seventy five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative  
Investment Fund pass a resolution at a meeting of unitholders that the Alternative  
Investment Fund be wound up; or 
(d) if the Board so directs in the interests of investors. 

(2) An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a limited liability partnership shall be wound 
up in accordance with the provisions of The Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008: 
(a) when the tenure of the Alternative  Investment Fund or all schemes launched by th e 
Alternative  Investment Fund, as mentioned in the placement memorandum is over; 
or 
(b) if seventy five percent of the investors by value of their investment in the Alternative  
Investment Fund pass a resolution at a meeting of unitholders that the Alternativ e  
Investment Fund be wound up; or 
(c) if the Board so directs in the interests of investors. 
(3) An Alternative Investment Fund set up as a company shall be wound up in accordance 
with the provisions of the 172[Companies Act, 2013]. 
(4) An Alternative Investment Fund s et up as a body corporate shall be wound up in 
accordance with the provisions of the statute under which it is constituted. 
(5) The trustees or trustee company or the Board of Directors or designated partners of the 
Alternative Investment Fund, as the case maybe, shall intimate the Board and investors of 
the circumstances leading to the winding up of the Alternative Investment Fund. 
(6) On and from the date of intimation under sub -regulation (5) of regulation 29, no further 
investments shall be made on behalf of the Alternative Investment Fund so wound up. 
(7) Within 173[the liquidation period ], the assets shall be liquidated, and the proceeds 
accruing to investors in the Alternative Investment Fund 174[or the scheme of the 
Alternative Investment Fund] shall be distributed to them after satisfying all liabilities. 
(8) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (7) and subject to the conditions, if 
any, contained in the placement memorandum or contribution agreement or subscription 
                                                      
172 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative  Investment Funds)(Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 01-06-2018. Prior to its substitution, it read as “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)”. 
173 Substituted for the words “one year from the date of intimation under sub -regulation (5) of regulation 29 ” by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) Regulations, 202 3 
w.e.f 15-06-2023. 
174 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 

agreement, as the case may be, 175[in specie distribution of assets of the scheme of the 
Alternative Investment Fund ], shall be made by the Alternative Investment Fund at any 
time, 176[including on winding up of the scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund ], as 
per the preference of investors, 177[subject to conditions as may be specified by the Board 
from time to time]. 
(9) 178[Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (7), during liquidation period of 
a scheme, an Alternative Investment Fund may distribute investments of a scheme which 
are not sold due to lack of liquidity, in -specie to the investors or 179[enter into dissolution 
period], after obtaining approval of at least seventy five percent of the investors by value 
of their investment in the scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund, in th e manner and 
subject to conditions specified by the Board from time to time: 
Provided that in the absence of consent of unit holders for exercising the options under 
sub-regulation (9) during liquidation period, such investments of the scheme of the 
Alternative Investment Fund shall be dealt with in the manner as may be specified by the 
Board from time to time.]  
180 [(9A) If the liquidation period for a scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund has expired  
or is expiring within three months from the date of n otification of the Securities and  
Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment)  
Regulations, 2024, such schemes may be granted an additional liquidation period, subject  
to such conditions and in the manner as may be specified by the Board: 
                                                      
175 Substituted for the words “ in specie distribution of assets of the Alternative Investment Fund ” by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) Regulations, 202 3 w.e.f 15-06-
2023. 
176 Substituted for the words “ including on winding up of the Alternative Investment Fund ” by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) Regulations, 202 3 w.e.f 15-06-
2023. 
177 Substituted for the words “ after obtaining app roval of at least seventy five percent of the investors by value of 
their investment in the Alternative Investment Fund ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 
178 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 
179 Substituted for the words “sell such investments to a liquidation scheme” by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 25 -04-2024. 
180 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 25-04-2024. 

Provided that the additional liquidation period granted under sub -regulation (9A) 
shall be without prejudice to the issuance of any direction or measures in accordance with 
the provision of the Act and regulations framed thereunder. 
(10) If the  scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund enters into a dissolution period as 
provided under regulation 29B and the unliquidated investments of the scheme are not 
sold by the expiry of the dissolution period, such investments shall be mandatorily 
distributed in-specie to the investors, in the manner as may be specified by the Board.] 
181[(11)] Upon winding up of the Alternative Investment Fund, the certificate of registration 
shall be surrendered to the Board. 
182[Liquidation Scheme. 
29A. (1) The Alternative In vestment Fund may launch a liquidation scheme subject to filing of 
placement memorandum with the Board.  
(2) The requirements under Regulation 10(b), Regulation 10(c), Regulation 12, Regulation 13(1), 
Regulation 13(2), Regulation 13(4), Regulation 13(5), R egulation 15, Regulation 16, Regulation 
17, Regulation 18, Regulation 19L(1), Regulation 19L(2), Regulation 19M, Regulation 29 (7) 
and Regulation 29 (9) shall not apply to a liquidation scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund. 
(3) The placement memorandum of liquidation scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund shall 
be filed with the Board through a merchant banker along with the fees as specified in the Second 
Schedule. 
(4) The tenure of liquidation scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund shall be det ermined at 
the time of filing of placement memorandum with the Board in the manner and subject to 
conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
(5) The tenure of liquidation scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund shall not be extended. 
(6) The liquidatio n scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund shall not accept any fresh 
commitment from any investor and shall not make any new investment. 
                                                      
181 Sub-regulation (10) renumbered as (11)  by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment 
Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 25-04-2024. 
182 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 

(7) The investments of the liquidation scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund which are not 
sold due to lack of li quidity by the end of its tenure shall be dealt with, in the manner as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time.] 
183[(8) No Alternative Investment Fund shall launch any new liquidation scheme under this 
regulation after the notification of the Securi ties and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024:  
Provided that any liquidation scheme launched by an Alternative Investment Fund prior 
to the notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2024 shall continue to be governed by regulation 29A and 
the other provisions of these regulations till such schemes are wound up.] 
184[Dissolution Period. 
29B. (1) A scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund may enter into a dissolution period in the 
manner and subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
(2) The scheme entering into a dissolution period shall file an information memorandum with the 
Board through a merchant banker in the manner as may be specified by the Board. 
(3) The dissolution period of a scheme of an Alternative Investment Fund shall not be more than 
the original tenure of the scheme and shall not be extended in any manner upon expiry of the 
dissolution period. 
(4) The scheme of the Alternative Investment Fund shall not accept any fresh commitment from 
any investor and shall not make any new investment during the dissolution period.] 
 
CHAPTER V 
INSPECTION 
Board’s right to inspect.  
                                                      
183 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 25-04-2024. 
184 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Inve stment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 25-04-2024. 

30. The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more 
persons as Inspecting Authority to undertake inspection of the books of account, records and 
documents relating to an Alternative Investment Fund for any of the following reasons, 
namely, — 
(a) to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by the 
Alternative Investment Fund in the manner specified in these regulations; 
(b) to inspect complaints received from investors, clients or any other person, on any matter 
having a bearing on the activities of the Alternative Investment Fund; 
(c) to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and these regulations are being complied 
with by the Alternative Investment Fund;  
(d) to inspect suo motu the affairs of an Alternative Investment Fund, in the interest of the 
securities market or in the interest of investors. 
Notice before inspection. 
31. (1) Before ordering an inspection under regulation 30, the Board shall give not less 
than ten days notice to the Alternative Investment Fund. 
(2) Notwithstanding a nything contained in sub -regulation (1) where the Board is satisfied 
that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an order in 
writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the Alternative Investment Fund be 
taken up without such notice. 
(3) During the course of an inspection, the Alternative Investment Fund against whom the 
inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided in 
regulation 32. 
Obligation of Alternative Investment Fund on inspection.  
32. (1) It shall be the duty of every officer of the Alternative Investment Fund in respect 
of whom an inspection has been ordered under regulation 30 and any other associated 
person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to co nduct and affairs of 
such Alternative Investment Fund including Manager, if any, to produce to the Inspecting 
Authority such books, accounts and other documents in his custody or control and furnish 

him with such statements and information as the said Auth ority may require for the 
purposes of the inspection. 
(2) It shall be the duty of every officer of the Alternative Investment Fund and any other 
associated person who is in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and 
affairs of the Alternative Investment Fund including the manager to give to the Inspecting 
Authority all such assistance and shall extend all such co -operation as may be required in 
connection with the inspection and shall furnish such information as sought by the 
Inspecting Authority in connection with the inspection. 
(3) The Inspecting Authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to examine on 
oath and record the statement of any employees, directors or person responsible for or 
connected with the activities of Alternat ive Investment Fund or any other associated 
person having relevant information pertaining to such Alternative Investment Fund. 
(4) The Inspecting Authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to obtain 
authenticated copies of documents, books, accounts of Alternative Investment Fund, from 
any person having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts. 
Submission of report to the Board. 
33. The Inspecting Authority shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit 
an inspection report to the Board:  
Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim report. 
Communication of findings, etc. to the Alternative Investment Fund. 
34. The Board may after consideration of the inspection report and after giving reas onable 
opportunity of hearing to the Alternative Investment Fund or its trustees, directors or 
manager issue such direction as it deems fit in the interest of securities market or the 
investors including directions in the nature of :— 
(a) requiring an Alternat ive Investment Fund not to launch new schemes or raise money 
from investors for a particular period; 
(b) prohibiting the person concerned from disposing of any of the properties of the fund or 
scheme acquired in violation of these regulations; 

(c) requiring the person connected to dispose of the assets of the fund or scheme in a manner 
as may be specified in the directions; 
(d) requiring the person concerned to refund any money or the assets to the concerned 
investors along with the requisite interest or otherwise, collected under the scheme; 
(e) prohibiting the person concerned from operating in the capital market or from accessing 
the capital market for a specified period. 
CHAPTER VI 
PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT  
Liability for action in case of default. 
35. (1) An Alternative Investment Fund which— 
(a) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations; 
(b) fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as an Alternative Investment 
Fund as required by the Board; 
(c) furnishes to the Board information w hich is false or misleading in any material 
particular; 
(d) does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board; 
(e) does not co -operate in any enquiry, inspection or investigation conducted by the 
Board; 
(f) fails to resolve the complaints of investo rs or fails to give a satisfactory reply to the 
Board in this behalf, 
shall be dealt with in the manner provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.  
(2) Sub-regulation (1) shall not prejudice the powers of the Board to issue directions or 
measures under regulation 34 or under sections 11, 11B, 11D, sub -section (3) of section 
12 or section 24 or Chapter VIA of the Act or under any other law for the time being in 
force. 
 

185[CHAPTER VI-A 
POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 
 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
 
35A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or 
any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specifie d but not exceeding 
twelve months, for furthering innovation 186[***] relating to testing new products, processes, 
services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities 
markets. 
 
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the 
applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including 
conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. 
Explanation. —For  the  purposes  of  these Regulations ,  "regulatory  sandbox "  means  
a live testing environment  where  new products,  processes,  services, business models,  
etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, 
for furthering innovation in the securities market, subject to s uch conditions as may be 
specified by the Board.] 
 
CHAPTER VII 
MISCELLANEOUS  
Power of the Board to issue clarifications. 
36. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, the 
Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars or issue separate 
circular or guidelines or framework for each category of Alternative Investment Funds.  
Delegation of powers. 
                                                      
185  Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, 
w.e.f. 17-04-2020. 
186 The words “ in technological aspects ” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Regulatory 
Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 03-08-2021. 

37. The powers exercisable by the Board under these regulations shall also be exercisable by any  
officer of the Board to whom such powers are delegated by the Board by means of an order 
made under section 19 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 
 
 Amendments to other Regulations. 
38. The regulations specified in the Third Schedule to t hese regulations shall be amended in the 
manner and to the extent stated therein. 
Repeal and Saving. 
39. (1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 
1996 hereby shall stand repealed. 
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal: 
(a) Anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken, 
including suspension or cancellation of certificate of registration, any inquiry or 
investigation commenced or show cause notice issued under the repealed 
regulations, shall be deemed to ha ve been done or taken under the corresponding 
provisions of  these regulations; 
(b) All venture capital funds or schemes launched by such venture capital funds prior to 
date of notification of these regulations shall continue to be governed by provisions 
of Se curities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 
1996 till the fund or Scheme is wound up: 
Provided that such funds shall not launch any new Scheme after notification of 
these regulations; 
187[Provided further that the venture capita l funds that seeks registration as a 
migrated venture capital fund in terms of Chapter III -D shall be governed by these 
regulations from the date of grant of certificate of registration: 
                                                      
187 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 20-07-2024. 

Provided further that the Board may specify enhanced regulatory repor ting and 
other measures for the venture capital funds that do not seek registration as a 
migrated venture capital fund in terms of Chapter III-D.] 
(c) Any application made to the Board under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Venture Capital Funds) Re gulations, 1996 and pending before it shall be 
deemed to have been made under the corresponding provisions of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012. 
(3) After the repeal of Securities and Exchange Board of Ind ia (Venture Capital Funds) 
Regulations, 1996, any reference thereto in any other regulations made, guidelines or 
circulars issued thereunder by the Board shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
corresponding provisions of these regulations. 

FIRST SCHEDULE-FORM 
FORM A 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 
See regulation 3 
Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration as Alternative Investment Fund 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, C4-A, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai 400051 - India 
 
INSTRUCTIONS 
1. This form is meant for use by the applicant for grant of certificate of registration as an 
Alternative Investment Fund. 
2. The applicant should complete this form, and submit it, along  with all supporting documents 
to the Board at its head office at Mumbai. 
3. This application form should be filled in accordance with these regulations. 
4. The application shall be considered by the Board provided it is complete in all respects. 
5. All answers mus t be legible and all the pages must be numbered with signature/ stamp on 
each page of the form. 
6. Information which needs to be supplied in more detail may be given on separate sheets which 
should be attached to the application form and appropriately numbered. 
7. The application must be signed and all signatures must be original. 
8. The application must be accompanied by an application fee as specified in the Second 
Schedule to these regulations. 
 
1. GENERAL INFORMATION 
(a) Name, address of the registered office, address for correspondence and principal place 
of business, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the applicant. 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s). 
(c) Legal structure of applicant - Whether the applicant is a company or trust or limited 
liability partnership or a body corporate.  
(d) Date and place of incorporation/ establishment. 

188[(e) Category under which the application is made –  
1. Category I Alternative Investment Fund- Venture Capital Fund 
189[1A. Category I Alternative Investment Fund- Angel Fund] 
 
2. Category I Alternative Investment Fund- Social 190[Impact] Fund 
3. Category I Alternative Investment Fund- SME Fund 
4. Category I Alternative Investment Fund- Infrastructure Fund 
5. Category I Alternative Investment Fund - Special Situation Fund 
6. Category I Alternative Investment Fund- Other 
7. Category II Alternative Investment Fund  
8. Category III Alternative Investment Fund] 
9. 191[Specified Alternative Investment Fund as provided under Regulation 19 of 
these regulations: Corporate Debt Market Development Fund] 
(e) In case the applicant proposes to register as a Category III Alternative Investment 
Fund, whether the fund shall be open ended or close ended. 
(f) Whether the applicant or its associates or its sponsor(s) or its manager(s) is/ are 
registered with the Board, Reserve Bank of India or any other regulatory authority in 
any capacity along with the details of its registration.  
(g) Details of infrastructure for conducting activities as an Alternative Investment Fund  
(h) Copy of the draft placement memorandum. 
 
2. DETAILS OF APPLICANT 
I. In case applicant is a Trust: 
1. Write-up on the activities of the applicant  
2. Whether the Trust Deed is registered under the provisions of the Registration 
Act, 1908. (Enclose relevant extract of the Registered Trust Deed) 
3. Whether the Trust Deed permits the carrying on of the activity of an 
Alternative Investment Fund  
4. Whether the applicant is prohibited by its trust deed from making an invitation 
to the public to subscribe to its units; 
                                                      
188 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2022 w.e.f 24.01.2022 
189 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 09-09-2025. 
190 Substituted for the word “venture” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Third Amendment) Regulations, 2022, w.e.f. 25.07.2022. 
191 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative In vestment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 

5. Provide details of Trustees/ Trustee Company as below:  
a. Whether Trustee is an individual or a Trustee company.  
b. Name, registered office address, telephone number(s) and fax 
number(s) of the Trustees/ Trustee Company.  
c. Name, direct line number, mobile number and e -mail of the contact 
person(s). 
d. Identity and Address proof of Trustees/ Directors of the Trustee 
Company 
e. Whether the Trustee Company is registered with Board, Reserve Bank 
of India or any other regulatory authority in any capacity along with the 
details of its registration. 
f. Brief write up on the activities of the Trustee Company/ Profile of 
Trustees.  
 
II. In case applicant is a Company: 
1. Write-up on the activities of the applicant  
2. Shareholding pattern and profile of the directors (Enclose Identity proof and 
address proof of the directors) 
3. Whether the Memorandum of Association permits carrying on of the activity of 
an Alternative Investment Fund  (Enclose relevant extract of the Memorandum 
of Association) 
4. Whether the applicant is prohibited by its memorandum and articles of 
association fr om making an invitation to the public to subscribe to its 
securities; 
  
III. In case applicant is a limited liability partnership: 
1. Write-up on the activities of the applicant  
2. Beneficial ownership pattern and profile of the partners (Enclose Identity proof  
and address proof of the partners) 
3. Whether the partnership deed is 192[duly filed] under the provisions of the 
Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 and permits carrying on of the activity 
of an Alternative Investment Fund (Enclose relevant extract of the  Partnership 
Deed) 
4. Whether the applicant is prohibited  by its partnership deed from making an 
invitation to the public to subscribe to its securities; 
 
IV. In case applicant is a Body Corporate 
1. Write-up on the activities of the applicant  
                                                      
192 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013, for the words “duly registered”. 

2. Shareholding patt ern and profile of the directors (Enclose Identity proof and 
address proof of the directors) 
3. Whether the applicant is set up or established under the laws of the Central or 
State Legislature 
4. Whether the applicant is permitted carrying on of the activity of  an Alternative 
Investment Fund  (Enclose relevant extract of the relevant Statute/Act) 
5. Whether the applicant is prohibited by its memorandum and articles of 
association from making an invitation to the public to subscribe to its 
securities; 
 
3.  DETAILS OF S PONSOR(S) (Sponsor shall be as defined in 193[clause (w) of sub-
regulation (1) of regulation 2]),  
(a) Name, address of registered office, address for correspondence and principal place of 
business, telephone number(s), fax number(s), e-mail address of the sponsor. 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s). 
(c) Legal status of the sponsor (whether sponsor(s) is/are individual/company/limited 
liability partnership/body corporate) and date and place of incorporation/ 
establishment, wherever applicable. 
(d) In case of Sponsor being individual(s), provide a brief profile of the Sponsor including 
professional qualification. In case of Sponsor(s) being other than individual, write up 
on shareholding pattern/ Partnership interests and profile of  the directors/partners 
including their professional qualification.  
(e) Identity proof and address proof of the Sponsor (if sponsor is an individual)/ directors 
of Sponsor(is sponsor is a company)/ partners of the Sponsor (if sponsor is an limited 
liability partnership). 
(f) Whether the Sponsor or its director(s)/ partner(s) is/are registered with the Board.  
(g) Details of past experience of the Sponsor(s) in advising or managing pools of capital 
or in fund or asset or wealth or portfolio management or in the busines s of buying, 
selling and dealing of securities or other financial assets. 
(h) Copies of the financial statements for the previous financial year 
(i) Whether, the Sponsor has floated any Alternative Investment Funds/ Venture Capital 
Funds previously, which are registered with the Board. If yes, details of the same. 
 
4. DETAILS OF MANAGER 
(a) Name, address of the registered office address for correspondence, telephone 
number(s), fax number(s), of the Manager(s). 
(b) Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s). 
                                                      
193 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Fund) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2013, w.e..f 16-09-2013, for the words, symbols and number “sub-regulation (w) of regulation 2” 

(c) Legal status of the Manager (whether Manager(s) is/are individual/company/limited 
liability partnership/body corporate) and date and place of incorporation/ 
establishment, wherever applicable. 
(d) Write up on the activities of the Manager includ ing past experience in advising or 
managing pools of capital or in fund or asset or wealth or portfolio management or in 
the business of buying, selling & dealing of securities or other financial assets. 
(e) Identity proof and address proof of the Manager (if manager is an individual)/ 
directors of Manager (if manager is a company)/ partners of the Manager (if manager 
is an limited liability partnership). 
(f) In case of Manager being a company or limited liability partnership, shareholding 
pattern /Partnership interests and profile of the directors /Partners  
(g) Brief profile of Key Investment Team including experience and professional 
qualification 
(h) Copies of the financial statements for the previous financial year 
(i) Whether, the Manager has managed/advised any Alternati ve Investment Funds/ 
Venture Capital Funds previously, which are registered with the Board. If yes, details 
of the same. 
 
5. DETAILS OF BUSINESS PLAN AND INVESTMENT STRATEGY 
(a) Investment objective and investment style/ strategy of the fund.  
(b) The target investors 
(c) The target industries/ sectors, if any 
(d) Proposed corpus 
(e) Proposed fees to the Sponsor and Manager 
(f) Tenure of the fund or scheme 
(g) Details of proposed use of leverage in case of Category III Alternative Investment 
Fund 
 
6. DETAILS OF REGULATORY ACTION TAKEN IN THE PAST, IF ANY 
(a) Whether the applicant or Sponsor or its directors/ partners or Manager or its Directors/ 
Partners or Trustees/ Trustee Company or its directors are/ were involved in any 
litigation connected with the securities market and any order has/ had been passed 
against them for violation of securities laws. (If Yes, provide details. If No, enclose a 
declaration to that effect). 
(b) Whether the applicant/ Sponsor/ Trustee/ Manager or its directors or Partners or 
employees are / have been involved in any li tigation connected with the securities 
market which may have an adverse bearing on the business of the applicant or any 
order has/ had been passed against them for violation of securities laws. (If Yes, 
provide details. If No, enclose a declaration to that effect). 

(c) Whether applicant/ Sponsor/ Trustee/ Manager or its directors or Partners has/ have 
been refused a certificate by the Board or its/ their certificate has been suspended at 
any time prior to this application. (If Yes, provide details. If No, enclo se a declaration 
to that effect). 
 
7. OTHER INFORMATION/DECLARATIONS 
 
(a) Amount contributed/ proposed to be contributed by the Sponsor(s)/Manager(s) as per 
clause (d) of regulation 10 along with details of the same. (Provide copies of 
commitment letters from the sponsor(s)/manager(s)). 
(b) Whether the applicant, Sponsor and Manager are fit and proper persons based on the 
criteria specified in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008; (Enclose a declaration to that effect). 
(c) Declaration that the applicant shall comply with the provisions of regulation 10 with 
respect to investment in the Alternative Investment Fund.  
(d) Declaration that the applicant shall comply with the provisions of regulation 15 and 16 
with respect to general invest ment conditions and conditions for the applicable 
category. 
 
DECLARATION STATEMENT (TO BE GIVEN AS BELOW) 
 
We hereby agree and declare that the information supplied in the application, including the 
attachment sheets, is complete and true. 
AND we further a gree that, we shall notify the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
immediately any change in the information provided in the application. 
We further agree that we shall comply with, and be bound by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India Act, 1992, a nd the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment 
Funds) Regulations, 2012, and Government of India guidelines/instructions as may be 
announced by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time to time. 
We further agree that as a condition of registration, we shall abide by such operational 
instructions/directives as may be issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time 
to time. 
 
 
For and on behalf of____________________________________________________ 
(Name of the applicant) 
 
Authorized signatory 

(Signature) 
 
FORM B 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 
See regulation 6 
Certificate of registration as Alternative Investment Fund 
I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), read with the regulations made 
thereunder, the Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to 
_______________________________________________________________ 
as an Alternative Investment Fund subject to the conditions specified in the Act and in 
the regulations made thereunder. 
 
II. The Category of the Alternative Investment Fund shall be -
__________________________________________. 
III. The Registration Number of the Alternative Investment Fund is  
IN/AIF/Category__/_____________. 
 
 
 
Date : 
Place : MUMBAI 
By Order 
Sd/- 
 
For and on behalf of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
 
______________________________________________________________________ 

SECOND SCHEDULE 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 
See 194[sub-regulation (5) of regulation 3, sub-regulation (2) of regulation 6, sub-regulation (2) 
of regulation 12 and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 17A]  
 
FEES 
195[PART A 
AMOUNT TO BE PAID AS FEES 
 
Application fee  `1,00,000 
Registration fee  for Category I Alternative 
Investment Funds other than Angel Funds 
` 5,00,000 
Registration fee for Category II Alternative 
Investment Funds 
`10,00,000 
Registration fee for Category III Alternative 
Investment Funds 
`15,00,000 
Scheme Fee  for Alternative Investment 
Funds 196[***] 
`1,00,000 
197[Fee for filing shelf placement 
memorandum for launching Co -investment 
schemes 
`1,00,000] 
198[***]  
                                                      
194 Substituted for the words and symbols “ sub-regulation (5) of regulation 3, sub -regulation (2) of regulation  6 and 
sub-regulation (2) of regulation 12 ” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 09-09-2025. 
195 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014, 
(w.e.f  23.05.2014). Prior to its substitution,  the Second Schedule, Part A as amended by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India  (Alternative Investment Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013, w.e.f. 16 -09-2013, read 
as under: 
"PART A 
AMOUNT TO BE PAID AS FEES 
Application fee `` 1,00,000 
Registration fee for Alternative Investment Funds 
other than Angel Funds   ` ` 5,00,000 
Registration fees for Angel Funds  ` 2,00,000 
Scheme Fee for Alternative Investmen t Funds other 
than Angel Funds   ` 1,00,000 
Re-registration Fee ` 1,00,000 
 
196 The words “other than Angel Funds” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 09-09-2025. 
197 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 09-09-2025. 

Registration Fee for Angel Funds ` 2,00,000 
199[Fee for refiling placement memorandum 
of Angel Fund under regulation 19D(7) of 
these regulations 
`1,00,000] 
200[Registration fee for Corporate Debt 
Market Development Fund (specified 
Alternative Investment Fund as provided 
under Regulation 19 of these regulations) 
₹5,00,000] 
                                                                                                                                        ]  
 
PART B 
201[The fees specified above shall be payable by way of direct credit into the bank account 
through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or online payment using the SEBI Payment Gateway or any other 
mode as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 
___________________________________________________________________ 
 
                                                                                                                                                                           
198 The words “Re-registration Fee: ₹1,00,000” omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2024 w.e.f 20-07-2024. 
199 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) ( Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2025 w.e.f 09-09-2025. 
200 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2023 w.e.f 15-06-2023. 
201 Substituted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations, 2023, w.e.f 01 -04-
2023. Prior to its substitution, it read as under: 
“The fees specified above shall be payable *[by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS 
or any other mode allowed by RBI or] by bank draft in favour of “The Securities and Exchange Board of India” at 
Mumbai.” 
*[Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) Regulations , 2017, w.e.f. 6-3-2017.] 
 
 

 
Third Schedule 
[see regulation 38] 
1. Amendment to Secur ities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and 
Disclosure) Regulations, 2009.  
(i) In regulation 2, in sub -regulation (1), in clause (zd),in sub -clause (i) after the words 
“venture capital fund” and before the words “and”, the words “, Alternative 
Investment Fund” shall be inserted; 
(ii) In regulation 37, in the proviso, clause (b) shall be substituted with the following 
namely, — 
“(b)  equity shares held by a venture capital fund or alternative investment fund of 
category I or a foreign venture capital investor: 
Provided that such equity shares shall be locked in for a period of at least one year 
from the date of purchase by the venture capital fund or alternative investment fund 
or foreign venture capital investor.” 
 
2. Amendment to Securities and Exchange Bo ard of India (Foreign Venture Capital 
Investors) Regulations, 2000, - 
(i) In regulation 2,  
(a) clause (l) shall be substituted with the following namely, — 
“(l) “Venture Capital Fund” means a fund registered with the Board under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 
1996 or under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative 
Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 in the sub -category of “Venture Capital 
Fund’ under Category I Alternative Investment Fund.” 
 
(b) clause (m) shall be substituted with the following namely, — 
“(m) “Venture Capital undertaking” means a venture capital undertaking as 
defined under clause(aa) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investmen t Funds) Regulations, 
2012.” 
 
(c) In sub-regulation (2), after the words “Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996” the words and numbers “or 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
Regulation, 2012” shall be inserted. 
 
(ii) In regulation 4, in sub -regulation  (1), clause (e) after the words “venture capital 
fund” the words “or Alternative Investment Fund” shall be inserted: 

 
(iii) In regulation 11, in clause (b), after the words “venture capital fund”,  the words “ or 
alternative investment fund” shall be inserted; 
(iv) In regulation 11, in clause (c), the words “venture capital undertaking” wherever 
occurring shall be replaced with the words “venture capital undertaking or investee 
company as defined in clause (o) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulation, 2012”. 
 
3. Amendments to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisitions of 
Shares and Takeover) Regulations, 2011. 
(i) In regulation 2, in sub -regulation (1), in clause (q),in sub -clause (2) after item (viii) 
the following new item shall be inserted namely, — 
“(viiia) an alternative investment fund and its sponsor, trustees, trustee company and 
manager;” 
 
(ii) In regulation 10, in sub -regulation (4), in clause (f) the words “venture capital fund” 
wherever occurring shall be replaced with the words “venture capital fund or 
Category I Alternative Investment Fund”. 
 
202[Fourth Schedule 
SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 
[Regulation 20(1) and 20(9)] 
 
1. Code of Conduct for Alternative Investment Funds 
An Alternative Investment Fund shall: 
(a) carry out its business activities and invest in accordance with the investment 
objectives stated in the placement memorandum and other fund documents.  
(b) be operated and managed in the interest of all investors and not only in the 
interest of the sponsor, manager, directors or partners of the sponsor and manager or a 
select class of investors.   
(c) ensure the dissemination of adequate, accurate, explicit and timely information in 
accordance with these Regulations to all investors.  
(d) ensure the dissemination of any other information as agreed with the investors.  
(e) ensure that an effective risk management process and appropriate internal controls 
are in place. 
                                                      
202 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2021, w.e.f. 05-05-2021. 

(f) have written policies and procedures to identify, monitor and appropriately 
mitigate any potential conflict of interest through-out the scope of its business.  
(g) not use any unethical means to sell, market or induce any investor to buy its units.  
(h) have written policies and procedures to comply with anti-money laundering laws. 
 
2. Code of Conduct for the Managers of Alternative Investment Funds and key 
management personnel of Managers and Alternative Investment Funds 
 
Every Manager of Alternative Investment Funds and key management personnel of the 
manager and Alternative Investment Funds shall: 
(a) abide by the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines and Circulars as applicable to 
Alternative Investment Funds at all times; 
(b) maintain integrity, highest ethical and professional standards in all its dealings; 
(c) ensure proper care and exercise due diligence and independent professional 
judgment in all its decisions;  
(d) act in a fiduciary capacity towards investors o f the Alternative Investment Fund 
and ensure that decisions are taken in the interest of the investors; 
(e) abide by the policies of the Alternative Investment Fund to identify, monitor and 
appropriately mitigate any potential conflict of interest throughout the scope of its business; 
(f) not make any misleading or inaccurate statement, whether oral or written, either 
about their qualifications or capability to render investment management services or their 
achievements; 
(g) record in writing, the investmen t, divestment and other key decisions, together 
with appropriate justification for such decisions;  
(h) provide appropriate and well considered inputs, which are not misleading, as 
required by the valuer to carry out appropriate valuation of the portfolio; 
(i) not enter into arrangements for sale or purchase of securities, where there is no 
effective change in beneficial interest or where the transfer of beneficial interest is only 
between parties who are acting in concert or collusion, other than for bona fide and legally 
valid reasons; 
(j) abide by confidentiality agreements with the investors and not make improper use 
of the details of personal investments and/or other information of investors;  
(k) not offer or accept any inducement in connection with the affairs of or business of 
managing the funds of investors; 
(l) document all relevant correspondence and understanding during a deal with 
counterparties as per the records of the Alternative Investment Fund, if they have 
committed to the transactions on behalf of Alternative Investment Fund; 

(m) maintain ethical standards of conduct and deal fairly and honestly with investee 
companies at all times; and 
(n) maintain confidentiality of information received from investee companies and 
companies seeking invest ments from Alternative Investment Fund, unless explicit 
confirmation is received that such information is not subject to any non -disclosure 
agreement. 
 
3. Code of Conduct for members of the Investment Committee, trustee, trustee 
company, directors of the trus tee company, directors or designated partners of the 
Alternative Investment Fund 
 
Members of the Investment Committee, trustee, trustee company, directors of the trustee 
company, directors or designated partners of the Alternative Investment Fund shall: 
(a) maintain integrity and the highest ethical and professional standards of conduct;  
(b) ensure proper care and exercise due diligence and independent professional 
judgment in carrying out their roles;  
(c) disclose details of any conflict of interest rela ting to any/all decisions in a timely 
manner to the Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund, adhere with the policies and 
procedures of the Alternative Investment Fund with respect to any conflict of interest and 
wherever necessary, recuse themselves from the decision making process; 
(d) maintain confidentiality of information received regarding the Alternative 
Investment Fund, its investors and investee companies; unless explicit confirmation is 
received that such information is not subject to any non-disclosure agreement. 
(e) not indulge in any unethical practice or professional misconduct or any act, 
whether by omission or commission, which tantamount to gross negligence or fraud.] 
 
********* 
 
 
 